---
title: Safety at Sea - a Study of Maritime SAR Treaties and their Evolution
date: 2021-03-01 12:00:00 +0800
author: Manthei
image:
  path: '/assets/img/posts/sar.jpg'
  alt: Image by Tanhauser Vázquez R. (www.pexels.com)
categories: [Contemporary topics, SAR]
tags: [SAR]
---

## The significance of Search and Rescue at Sea

The surface of the oceans is about 361.100.000 km².[^1] There are places
in the South Pacific ocean, where vessels are 2000 km away from the
nearest land.[^2] Having an accident so far away from land is
disastrous. There can be many reasons (e.g. broken rudder or mast, a
crack in the sail or even in the hull) but the consequences are often
severe. "Normal" accidents are unfortunate. Having a tire burst on the
highway is troublesome. However, at sea help may not arrive for 20
hours. That is without additional complications resulting from weather
or swell. Despite it is now the 21st Century, where high-tech radar
systems exist and swell and drift simulations calculate the position of
Men Over-Board, search and rescue missions can be a real challenge.

When the sinking of the Titanic happened in 1912, operating the radio
was a day job.[^3] Therefore, when other ships warned the Titanic´s Crew
of an iceberg up ahead, the messages did not get through. The iceberg
eventually spotted, there was no protocol for how situations as such
should be handled. The radio operators did not know about the newest
alarm code standards.[^4] The evacuation took place without prior
training. The few existing lifeboats were not capable to transport
everyone from the vessel.[^5] In present time every coastal state is
obliged to establish a Rescue Coordination Centre which is often
connected to joint Rescue Coordination Centres.[^6] For a broader
context, the Global Maritime Distress and Safety system was
established,[^7] including various systems for better SAR-missions and
connection all around the world. Furthermore, there are technological
advanced methods to prevent fatalities at sea and to get help to the
people in need, e.g. unified radio control codes and systems.[^8]

This paper will analyse the present international legal framework
applicable to Search and Rescue (SAR) operations at sea. The first
chapter will briefly introduce the definition of distress. To be subject
to a rescue mission, there has to be need for help. This requires a ship
(or a human being) in distress.

The second chapter will introduce to the most important treaties and
their history. It will focus on the reforms each treaty entailed and
give an overview of the results. Doing so, the paper will present the
usual SAR procedure in a brief textual simulation of a mission.

In the fourth chapter, the paper will dive deeper into the topic. The
goal is to lay out gaps in the set of rules which lead to controversies
regarding SAR which are important today. The paper will focus on the
situation people face after having been rescued. This will be done due
to the existence of considerable uncertainties of what the next steps in
bringing the rescued people to a definitive destination are,
particularly in relation to refugees. On board in safety, they can find
themselves in ambiguos situations. It is by no means clear that they
will be just brought to the nearest port. Interests of many parties play
into the proceeding of the situation. Such as the closest coastal State
may not want the rescued people to be disembarked onto its territory.
Several scholars have therefore tried to deduce a right to
disembarkation from the SAR framework and/or other international
instruments.

The paper will then end with a summary, again highlighting the most
important changes since the sinking of the Titanic and trying to
formulate an expectation on how SAR should - or is presumably going to -
evolve over the next couple of years in relation to the addressed
problems. The overall goal is to shed light upon the topic of SAR, the
applicable relevant rules and systems, what problems have been solved,
which problems remain and how as well as if they can be solved.

[^1]: Albert Gerdes, "Wie Groß Sind Die Sieben Weltmeere?" <[https://www.wissenschaft-im-dialog.de/projekte/wieso/artikel/beitrag/wie-gross-sind-die-sieben-weltmeere/#:\~:text=70,8 Prozent der Erdoberfläche,etwa 1.35 Milliarden Kubikkilometern Salzwasser.](https://www.wissenschaft-im-dialog.de/projekte/wieso/artikel/beitrag/wie-gross-sind-die-sieben-weltmeere/#:~:text=70,8 Prozent der Erdoberfläche,etwa 1.35 Milliarden Kubikkilometern Salzwasser.)\>.

[^2]: Jan Henne, "Point Nemo - Das Ist Der Abgelegenste Ort Der Erde" <<https://www.geo.de/natur/naturwunder-erde/17257-rtkl-point-nemo-das-ist-der-abgelegenste-ort-der-erde>\>.

[^3]: Robert D Ballard and Rick Archbold, *Das Geheimnis Der Titanic: 3800 Meter Unter Wasser* (Ullstein 1987) 299.

[^4]: Ibid 199.

[^5]: Greg Ward, "The Rough Guide to the Titanic" 79 \<[ISBN:1405386991](https://ISBN: 1405386991)\>.

[^6]: United Nations, "International Convention on Maritime Search and Rescue" chapter 2.1.1.

[^7]: See United Nations, "International Convention for the Safety of Life at Sea" regulation 10 lit h iv 1, Chapter V regulation 12, regulation 11 lit. a viii.

[^8]: See chapter 3.2. page 8.