---
title: Safety at Sea - a Study of Maritime SAR Treaties and their Evolution
date: 2021-03-01 12:00:00 +0800
author: Manthei
image:
  path: '/assets/img/posts/sar.jpg'
  alt: Image by Tanhauser Vázquez R. (www.pexels.com)
categories: [Contemporary topics, Search- and Rescue]
tags: [sar]
---


<h2 id="the-significance-of-search-and-rescue-at-sea">The significance
    of Search and Rescue at Sea
 </h2>
 <p>The surface of the oceans is about 361.100.000 km².<a href="#fn1"
    class="footnote-ref" id="fnref1" role="doc-noteref"><sup>1</sup></a>
    There are places in the South Pacific ocean, where vessels are 2000 km
    away from the nearest land.<a href="#fn2" class="footnote-ref"
       id="fnref2" role="doc-noteref"><sup>2</sup></a> Having an accident so
    far away from land is disastrous. There can be many reasons (e.g. broken
    rudder or mast, a crack in the sail or even in the hull) but the
    consequences are often severe. “Normal” accidents are unfortunate.
    Having a tire burst on the highway is troublesome. However, at sea help
    may not arrive for 20 hours. That is without additional complications
    resulting from weather or swell. Despite it is now the 21st Century,
    where high-tech radar systems exist and swell and drift simulations
    calculate the position of Men Over-Board, search and rescue missions can
    be a real challenge.
 </p>
 <p>When the sinking of the Titanic happened in 1912, operating the radio
    was a day job.<a href="#fn3" class="footnote-ref" id="fnref3"
       role="doc-noteref"><sup>3</sup></a> Therefore, when other ships warned
    the Titanic´s Crew of an iceberg up ahead, the messages did not get
    through. The iceberg eventually spotted, there was no protocol for how
    situations as such should be handled. The radio operators did not know
    about the newest alarm code standards.<a href="#fn4"
       class="footnote-ref" id="fnref4" role="doc-noteref"><sup>4</sup></a> The
    evacuation took place without prior training. The few existing lifeboats
    were not capable to transport everyone from the vessel.<a href="#fn5"
       class="footnote-ref" id="fnref5" role="doc-noteref"><sup>5</sup></a> In
    present time every coastal state is obliged to establish a Rescue
    Coordination Centre which is often connected to joint Rescue
    Coordination Centres.<a href="#fn6" class="footnote-ref" id="fnref6"
       role="doc-noteref"><sup>6</sup></a> For a broader context, the Global
    Maritime Distress and Safety system was established,<a href="#fn7"
       class="footnote-ref" id="fnref7" role="doc-noteref"><sup>7</sup></a>
    including various systems for better SAR-missions and connection all
    around the world. Furthermore, there are technological advanced methods
    to prevent fatalities at sea and to get help to the people in need,
    e.g. unified radio control codes and systems.<a href="#fn8"
       class="footnote-ref" id="fnref8" role="doc-noteref"><sup>8</sup></a>
 </p>
 <p>This paper will analyse the present international legal framework
    applicable to Search and Rescue (SAR) operations at sea. The first
    chapter will briefly introduce the definition of distress. To be subject
    to a rescue mission, there has to be need for help. This requires a ship
    (or a human being) in distress.
 </p>
 <p>The second chapter will introduce to the most important treaties and
    their history. It will focus on the reforms each treaty entailed and
    give an overview of the results. Doing so, the paper will present the
    usual SAR procedure in a brief textual simulation of a mission.<br />
    In the fourth chapter, the paper will dive deeper into the topic. The
    goal is to lay out gaps in the set of rules which lead to controversies
    regarding SAR which are important today. The paper will focus on the
    situation people face after having been rescued. This will be done due
    to the existence of considerable uncertainties of what the next steps in
    bringing the rescued people to a definitive destination are,
    particularly in relation to refugees. On board in safety, they can find
    themselves in ambiguos situations. It is by no means clear that they
    will be just brought to the nearest port. Interests of many parties play
    into the proceeding of the situation. Such as the closest coastal State
    may not want the rescued people to be disembarked onto its territory.
    Several scholars have therefore tried to deduce a right to
    disembarkation from the SAR framework and/or other international
    instruments.
 </p>
 <p>The paper will then end with a summary, again highlighting the most
    important changes since the sinking of the Titanic and trying to
    formulate an expectation on how SAR should - or is presumably going to -
    evolve over the next couple of years in relation to the addressed
    problems. The overall goal is to shed light upon the topic of SAR, the
    applicable relevant rules and systems, what problems have been solved,
    which problems remain and how as well as if they can be solved.
 </p>
 <h2 id="definitions-of-distress-situations">Definitions of Distress
    Situations
 </h2>
 <p>SAR missions serve to save people in distress. Despite the lack of
    fixed definitions originating from the legal framework itself, there
    have been attempts to define a situation of distress.<br />
    In the <em>Eleanor</em> case from 1809, Lord Stowell specified three
    requirements for identifying a distress situation.<a href="#fn9"
       class="footnote-ref" id="fnref9"
       role="doc-noteref"><sup>9</sup></a><br />
    First, it must be an urgent distress with a situation of grave
    necessity. Second, although there is no actual physical necessity
    needed, at least a moral necessity must be present. A damaged ship for
    example, whose journey would be dangerous for the lives of the persons
    on board would be called in distress.<br />
    Thirdly, the distress must not be a self caused distress.<a href="#fn10"
       class="footnote-ref" id="fnref10" role="doc-noteref"><sup>10</sup></a>
    According to this approach, danger to economic values were not enough to
    determine a situation of distress. This was acknowledged by the
    International Law Commission (ILC) which stated that “threats to human
    live are at the heart of the concept of distress”.<a href="#fn11"
       class="footnote-ref" id="fnref11"
       role="doc-noteref"><sup>11</sup></a><br />
    This view was echoed by the Irish High Court in the <em>M/V Toledo</em>
    case from 1995.<a href="#fn12" class="footnote-ref" id="fnref12"
       role="doc-noteref"><sup>12</sup></a> Here, the court took two separate
    steps: first it distinguished between a situation where there is peril
    to the life of the persons on board,- and a situation where the imminent
    danger only concerns economic interests. In a second step the court
    ruled that: <em>if safety of life is not a factor, then</em> (…) the
    States can <em>have proper regard to their own interests</em> (…).<br />
    One convention that has a narrower conception of a distress situation is
    the International Convention on maritime search and rescue from 1979
    (SAR 1979). Distress is defined in paragraph 1.3.13 SAR 1979 as “(A)
    Situation wherein there is reasonable certainty that a person, a vessel
    or other craft is threatened by grave and imminent danger and requires
    immediate assistance”.<a href="#fn13" class="footnote-ref" id="fnref13"
       role="doc-noteref"><sup>13</sup></a>** From a grammatical understanding
    “distress” means “a state of danger or desperate need”<a href="#fn14"
       class="footnote-ref" id="fnref14" role="doc-noteref"><sup>14</sup></a>
    It is worth noting that the dictionary definition does not specify for
    what the danger must be imminent. This is striking against the
    background that among legal scholars, there is almost overall consensus,
    that a situation where there is danger only for the cargo of the ship is
    excluded from the definition of distress.<a href="#fn15"
       class="footnote-ref" id="fnref15" role="doc-noteref"><sup>15</sup></a>
    However, this discrepancy can be ascribed to the differences of legal
    and dictionary definitions.
 </p>
 <p>A more controversial question is if danger to the life of a person
    onboard is a compelling necessity for distress or if it is sufficient if
    a person is in danger of severe health impairment.<a href="#fn16"
       class="footnote-ref" id="fnref16" role="doc-noteref"><sup>16</sup></a>
    This is not explicitly regulated in any framework. A more detailed
    analysis of this matter would go beyond the scope of this paper.<a
       href="#fn17" class="footnote-ref" id="fnref17"
       role="doc-noteref"><sup>17</sup></a> Nevertheless, it is worth keeping
    in mind that the definitions for distress should require a high-risk
    situation because distress situations may initiate high levels of
    protection with significant impact on other States´ rights which should
    not be applied easily.<a href="#fn18" class="footnote-ref" id="fnref18"
       role="doc-noteref"><sup>18</sup></a> For instance, it is generally
    recognised that foreign vessels in distress have a right of entry to a
    foreign port and therefore to the territory of a coastal State,<a
       href="#fn19" class="footnote-ref" id="fnref19"
       role="doc-noteref"><sup>19</sup></a> irrespectively of the question if a
    right to disembarkment exists.<a href="#fn20" class="footnote-ref"
       id="fnref20" role="doc-noteref"><sup>20</sup></a>
 </p>
 <p>However, the applicability of framework which uses the term distress
    depends on the definition of distress which applies to each convention.
    The above-mentioned definitions are not conclusively enumerated.
 </p>
 <h2 id="relevant-international-treaties-regulating-sar">Relevant
    International Treaties Regulating SAR
 </h2>
 <p>The most important treaties for the evolution of SAR are going to be
    presented in the following. The International Convention on Safety of
    Life at Sea<a href="#fn21" class="footnote-ref" id="fnref21"
       role="doc-noteref"><sup>21</sup></a> from 1914 (SOLAS 1914) was the
    first convention to comprehensively treat the most important issues
    concerning SAR. The SOLAS 1974<a href="#fn22" class="footnote-ref"
       id="fnref22" role="doc-noteref"><sup>22</sup></a> can be called the next
    most important treaty because it modernized important security measures
    for SAR. The SOLAS 1974 was a fully revised version of the 1929<a
       href="#fn23" class="footnote-ref" id="fnref23"
       role="doc-noteref"><sup>23</sup></a>,1948<a href="#fn24"
       class="footnote-ref" id="fnref24" role="doc-noteref"><sup>24</sup></a>
    and 1960 amendments. It contains paramount precautionary provisions for
    the safety of life at sea. For SAR missions, the SAR 1979<a href="#fn25"
       class="footnote-ref" id="fnref25" role="doc-noteref"><sup>25</sup></a>
    can be named as the most important treaty. It contains a very
    comprehensive set of rules and recommendations to make SAR missions as
    effective as possible. This is why this treaty and its amendments from
    1998<a href="#fn26" class="footnote-ref" id="fnref26"
       role="doc-noteref"><sup>26</sup></a> and 2004<a href="#fn27"
       class="footnote-ref" id="fnref27" role="doc-noteref"><sup>27</sup></a>
    will be in the focus of the following analysis.
 </p>
 <h3 id="solas-1914">SOLAS 1914</h3>
 <p>Only two years after the sinking of the Titanic in 1912 some of the
    then biggest naval forces corporately adopted a treaty to reform the
    safety of merchant shipping at sea. The member States refer to this
    cause in the preamble of the International Convention on Safety of Life
    at Sea (SOLAS 1914) as following:<br />
    <em>Having recognised the desirability of determining</em> (…)
    <em>certain uniform rules with respect to the safety of life at
    sea,</em> (the States) <em>have decided to conclude a convention</em>
    (…).<a href="#fn28" class="footnote-ref" id="fnref28"
       role="doc-noteref"><sup>28</sup></a> The convention was divided in two
    parts. First a provisional part, subdivided into eight chapters and a
    second part to specify the set of rules from the first part. The first
    and the second chapters were devoted to provisions on how to give effect
    to the treaty and to which vessels the convention is applicable. The
    third chapter seemed to be a direct response to the Titanic’s collision
    with an iceberg. Art. 6 I SOLAS 1914 provides the legal basis of an ice
    patrol to “ensure the destruction of derelicts in the north Atlantic
    Ocean” which the contracting parties established. Furthermore, the ice
    patrol was made responsible for the study and observation of the ice
    conditions in the North Atlantic ocean.<br />
    Back then, the routes for the ships were picked by the steamship
    companies. Those companies were now obliged to give public notice of
    their routes. These were directly actionable measures to ensure the
    safety of the transatlantic route which the Titanic took in 1912.
 </p>
 <p>Art. 8 and 9 SOLAS 1914 introduced reporting requirements which
    obliged the masters of the vessels to communicate all information they
    received about dangerous derelicts to the vessels in vicinity and the
    concerned authorities. Those authorities then had to bring the received
    information to the attention of everyone concerned including other
    administrations. This information had to be sent in a uniform matter.<a
       href="#fn29" class="footnote-ref" id="fnref29"
       role="doc-noteref"><sup>29</sup></a> These provisions promoted the
    coordination of the State community for the purpose of safety at sea.
    Art. 10 SOLAS 1914 provided a regulation for the informed vessels to
    alter their course and to proceed with moderate speed. Albeit the
    impreciseness of the term <em>moderate speed</em> it can be deduced,
    that informed vessels shall reduce their velocity to proceed with
    caution. Art. 11 and 12 SOLAS 1914 embody another step to create uniform
    legal rules by implementing provisions to have satisfactory morse -
    signaling - equipment on board and how to use them.<br />
    Chapter four contained provisions for the construction of vessels. These
    were amongst the paramount provisions to standardize safety of merchant
    ships for all the signing parties. The fifth chapter was dedicated to
    radiotelegraphy. In accordance with Art. 31 SOLAS 1914, all vessels, to
    which the regulation applies, shall be equipped with radiotelegraphy
    installations. This norm was complimented by provisions regulating the
    use and the obligations that came from having such an installation. In
    1914 it was not certain that every vessel was equipped with all the
    technological equipment necessary for a safe voyage. The reason for this
    was a lack of national, and especially international, obligation as well
    as little motivation of the Shipowners themselves. Art. 34 SOLAS 1914
    obliged the ship´s crew to maintain a continuous watch over the
    installation. This obligation arrived either by the Flag State through
    domestic law<a href="#fn30" class="footnote-ref" id="fnref30"
       role="doc-noteref"><sup>30</sup></a> or for certain vessels directly
    from the convention itself.<a href="#fn31" class="footnote-ref"
       id="fnref31" role="doc-noteref"><sup>31</sup></a> In addition to this,
    every master of a ship, who received a call for assistance from a vessel
    in distress was bound to proceed to the assistance of the persons in
    distress by Art. 37 I SOLAS 1914. This provision can be understood as
    one of the first written provisions including the duty to assist
    distressed vessels.<br />
    Chapter six provided regulations regarding life-saving appliances. Every
    vessel from thereon was obliged to carry only as many persons on aboard
    as there were lifeboats.<a href="#fn32" class="footnote-ref"
       id="fnref32" role="doc-noteref"><sup>32</sup></a> This applied not only
    to newly constructed boats, but also to existing ships.<br />
    The seventh chapter provides rules for safety certifications of vessels,
    while the eighth holds final provisions.
 </p>
 <p>The SOLAS 1914 convention primarily provided the technical changes
    which were considered necessary then. With the rules for the use of the
    technical equipment the convention worked towards the unification of
    international law of life at sea. Collisions with icebergs were reduced
    by introducing the ice patrol and the information exchange between the
    vessels.<a href="#fn33" class="footnote-ref" id="fnref33"
       role="doc-noteref"><sup>33</sup></a>
 </p>
 <h3 id="solas-1974">SOLAS 1974</h3>
 <p>The International Convention for the Safety of Life at Sea 1974
    (SOLAS 1974) came with modernizations of the regulations from 1914.
    Considerable changes were the implementation of State defined shipping
    routes and provisions for the use and equipment of modernized
    radiotelegraphy. Furthermore, SOLAS 1974 provided an innovative way of
    implementing amendments to keep the convention as dynamic as
    possible.
 </p>
 <p>The SOLAS 1974 was adopted in 1974 and entered into force in 1980.
    The convention consists of 13 articles and an annex divided into 14
    chapters. Especially,- because of the technical advances in the 20th
    Century, there was room for regulations regarding new technology.
 </p>
 <p>To keep up with modernizations of technical equipment the convention
    had to be as dynamic as possible. Therefore, Art. 8 SOLAS 1974 provided
    a way of “automatically” adapting specific parts.<a href="#fn34"
       class="footnote-ref" id="fnref34" role="doc-noteref"><sup>34</sup></a>
    This provision was important for the development of the convention as
    the objecting governments had to take action to stop an amendment, not
    as usual, the other way round. This has led to many amendments since
    then.<a href="#fn35" class="footnote-ref" id="fnref35"
       role="doc-noteref"><sup>35</sup></a> The convention is therefore often
    regarded to as the SOLAS 1974 “as amended”.
 </p>
 <p>The first chapter provides definitions and general provisions,
    including regulations for issuing safety certificates.<a href="#fn36"
       class="footnote-ref" id="fnref36" role="doc-noteref"><sup>36</sup></a>
    Underlining the States´ interests of multilateralism in the case of
    safety at sea, chapter I regulation 19 SOLAS 1974 is especially worth
    mentioning, as it stipulates a right for every contracting government to
    control every ship (of other contracting Governments) in their ports in
    order to verify whether such a certificate is on board. If it is not,
    the port State can take the necessary measures to ensure that the vessel
    proceeds only if the safety of the passengers or the crew is guaranteed.
    The measures, the port State can take to handle the situation are not
    limited by the convention. The officer carrying out the control is only
    obliged to inform the consul of the Flag State of the vessel about the
    taken measures and why such were deemed necessary. This provision amends
    the authority of the port State by taking over duties from the Flag
    State which is regularly<a href="#fn37" class="footnote-ref"
       id="fnref37" role="doc-noteref"><sup>37</sup></a> the one responsible to
    do so. This is outstanding because it stipulates an extra competency to
    the port State deriving from international law additional to the
    territorial rights.
 </p>
 <p>Chapter four contributes regulations regarding technical developments
    for radiotelegraphy and radiotelephony. The paramount reform is the
    implementation of the Global Maritime Distress and Safety System (GMDSS)
    which is further shaped by the SAR 1979.<a href="#fn38"
       class="footnote-ref" id="fnref38" role="doc-noteref"><sup>38</sup></a>
    The system consists of technical and organizational requirements.
    Automatically activated distress-signal transmitters as well as radar
    direction finders need to be installed on the vessels.<a href="#fn39"
       class="footnote-ref" id="fnref39" role="doc-noteref"><sup>39</sup></a>
    Particular parts of the GMDSS are Satellite Emergency Position
    Indicating Radio Beacons (EPIRBs) and Search and Rescue transponders
    (SARTs).<a href="#fn40" class="footnote-ref" id="fnref40"
       role="doc-noteref"><sup>40</sup></a> These devices are activated
    manually or automatically, shall withstand severe conditions and shall
    always be carried on the vessel and the lifeboats.<a href="#fn41"
       class="footnote-ref" id="fnref41" role="doc-noteref"><sup>41</sup></a>
    Depending on the type of vessel the ship has to be additionally equipped
    with VHF radiotelephone, DSC or AIS transmitters<a href="#fn42"
       class="footnote-ref" id="fnref42" role="doc-noteref"><sup>42</sup></a>
    and NAVTEX.<a href="#fn43" class="footnote-ref" id="fnref43"
       role="doc-noteref"><sup>43</sup></a> These installations are
    substantiated by various locating satellites.<br />
    Additionally to the safety provisions there can be found links to
    operational regulations of SAR in chapter five. Especially important is
    regulation 10 as it states the obligation of every master of a ship to
    proceed with all speed to the assistance of the persons in distress upon
    receiving a distress signal. If this is, as the wording suggests, a
    regulation directed straight to the master of the vessel is highly
    controversial.<a href="#fn44" class="footnote-ref" id="fnref44"
       role="doc-noteref"><sup>44</sup></a> This is of importance for the
    question of subjectivity in international law as it seems, that the
    master of the vessel is individually obligated by SOLAS 1974.<a
       href="#fn45" class="footnote-ref" id="fnref45"
       role="doc-noteref"><sup>45</sup></a>
 </p>
 <p>A further regulation which contributes noticeably to the SAR missions
    is regulation 15 SOLAS 1974 which provides the groundwork for
    governmental SAR organizations and maritime safety facilities. Thereby,
    each Government has to undertake arrangements to ensure that persons in
    distress around their coast are rescued. The propound measures should
    include the establishment and operation of maritime safety arrangements
    and should be adequate to locate and rescue persons in distress. These
    regulations are precautionary as they prepare the region for future
    distress situations. One could argue these provisions are only
    applicable to the adjacent waters of the coastal State, thereby meaning
    the maritime zones under at least functional sovereign rights.<a
       href="#fn46" class="footnote-ref" id="fnref46"
       role="doc-noteref"><sup>46</sup></a> To the background of an historical
    point of view this is not too controversial. It will be seen,<a
       href="#fn47" class="footnote-ref" id="fnref47"
       role="doc-noteref"><sup>47</sup></a> that the SAR 1979 convention
    extended the State duty of operating SAR services to all parts of the
    seas to organize and unify State efforts. The reason being different
    possibilities and endaevours of different countries around the
    world.
 </p>
 <p>Chapter VI to XIV provide other safety measures e.g. for specific
    vessels and their cargo such as nuclear ships or bulk carriers. These
    measures are an outcome of the technological advance, that was made
    during the 20th century.
 </p>
 <p>The SOLAS 1974 advanced the safety of merchant vessels to prevent
    accidents in the first place. If a ship is sailing without a safety
    certificate, the concerned member States can take measures for ensuring,
    that the vessel only sails if safe voyage is guaranteed. Following the
    technological advance, there are additional technical measures
    introduced. The convention makes sure that a vessel in distress is not
    only able to contact nearby ships, but also that the vessel can be
    located by onshore organizations to send help.
 </p>
 <h3 id="state-of-search-and-rescue-after-solas-1974">State of Search and
    Rescue after SOLAS 1974
 </h3>
 <p>Although the SOLAS 1974 provided the technical grounds for SAR, there
    was still disparity in the common practice of SAR. Some States were
    dedicated to provide well equipped and efficient SAR services. The Royal
    National Lifeboat Institution for example was one of the first
    institutions to provide SAR for the UK.<a href="#fn48"
       class="footnote-ref" id="fnref48" role="doc-noteref"><sup>48</sup></a>
    In other parts of the oceans, little help was to be anticipated for
    distressed people. There was a lack of technical possibilities and even
    a lack of political will on behalf of some coastal States. The so called
    boatpeople in the South China Sea could barely rely on help of the
    bordering States. It was i.a. for European rescue missions to support on
    site SAR services.<a href="#fn49" class="footnote-ref" id="fnref49"
       role="doc-noteref"><sup>49</sup></a> The SAR 1979 therefore aimed for
    unification by providing an international SAR plan and urged the
    neighbouring-States to cooperate where necessary.
 </p>
 <h3 id="sar-1979">SAR 1979</h3>
 <p>Because the SAR 1979 was amended several times, this part will refer
    to the SAR 1979 as amended<a href="#fn50" class="footnote-ref"
       id="fnref50" role="doc-noteref"><sup>50</sup></a> in 1998<a href="#fn51"
       class="footnote-ref" id="fnref51" role="doc-noteref"><sup>51</sup></a>
    (SAR 1998) and 2004<a href="#fn52" class="footnote-ref" id="fnref52"
       role="doc-noteref"><sup>52</sup></a> (SAR 2004). Especially the
    amendment from 1998 was of such size and importance, that it would be
    fruitless for the study of SAR to look at each amendment
    separately.<br />
    The original treaty consisted of eight articles and an annex divided
    into six chapters. The current annex is divided into five chapters.
 </p>
 <p>Special interest shall be paid to Art. III SAR 1979, which provides
    the convention with a dynamic instrument to keep the convention updated
    by way of amendments. The regulation is comparable with Art. 8 SOLAS
    1974.<a href="#fn53" class="footnote-ref" id="fnref53"
       role="doc-noteref"><sup>53</sup></a> As in the SOLAS 1974 convention, if
    an amendment concerns certain regulations, the amendment enters into
    force by a certain date if no party objects.<br />
    The first chapter, which was entirely renewed by the 1998 amendment,
    contains the definition of the terms used in the annex.<br />
    Chapter two<a href="#fn54" class="footnote-ref" id="fnref54"
       role="doc-noteref"><sup>54</sup></a> inaugurates the organization and
    co-ordination of SAR operations. By chapter 2 paragraph 2.1.1 SAR 1979,
    parties shall develop SAR-services, either in cooperation with other
    States, with the organization, or individually. SAR-services are defined
    as “distress monitoring, communication, co-ordination and search and
    rescue functions, including provision of medical advice, initial medical
    assistance, or medical evacuation”.<a href="#fn55" class="footnote-ref"
       id="fnref55" role="doc-noteref"><sup>55</sup></a> These services are
    provided by using public and private resources including co-operating
    aircraft, vessels and other craft and installations. The
    responsibilities are clear: the parties have to establish basic elements
    of SAR services. Those can be described as:
 </p>
 <ol>
    <li>
       <p>legal framework;<a href="#fn56" class="footnote-ref" id="fnref56"
          role="doc-noteref"><sup>56</sup></a></p>
    </li>
    <li>
       <p>assignment of a responsible authority;<a href="#fn57"
          class="footnote-ref" id="fnref57"
          role="doc-noteref"><sup>57</sup></a></p>
    </li>
    <li>
       <p>organisation of available resources;<a href="#fn58"
          class="footnote-ref" id="fnref58"
          role="doc-noteref"><sup>58</sup></a></p>
    </li>
    <li>
       <p>communication facilities;<a href="#fn59" class="footnote-ref"
          id="fnref59" role="doc-noteref"><sup>59</sup></a></p>
    </li>
    <li>
       <p>co-ordination and operational functions;<a href="#fn60"
          class="footnote-ref" id="fnref60" role="doc-noteref"><sup>60</sup></a>
          and
       </p>
    </li>
    <li>
       <p>processes to improve the service including planning, domestic and
          international co-operative relationships and training.<a href="#fn61"
             class="footnote-ref" id="fnref61"
             role="doc-noteref"><sup>61</sup></a>
       </p>
    </li>
 </ol>
 <p>These obligations do not exhaust in establishing SAR-services to the
    adjacent coast but apply to the whole sea.<a href="#fn62"
       class="footnote-ref" id="fnref62" role="doc-noteref"><sup>62</sup></a>
    Chapter 2 paragraph 2.1.3 SAR 1979 is of paramount importance for the
    evolution of SAR. Parties to the convention shall establish SAR regions
    (SRR) within <em>each sea area</em>. These regions shall be established
    by agreement among the parties concerned.<a href="#fn63"
       class="footnote-ref" id="fnref63" role="doc-noteref"><sup>63</sup></a>
    In these designated areas, the parties are responsible for the
    SAR-services and by chapter 2 paragraph 2.1.9 SAR 1979 shall use SAR
    units and other available facilities for providing these services. This
    provision takes a big step to the unification of SAR services. It is not
    supposed to leave any “white dots”.<a href="#fn64" class="footnote-ref"
       id="fnref64" role="doc-noteref"><sup>64</sup></a> To ensure this, the
    provision is complemented by appropriate national procedures which shall
    be established by each party to develop, coordinate and improve SAR
    services.<a href="#fn65" class="footnote-ref" id="fnref65"
       role="doc-noteref"><sup>65</sup></a> These procedures shall include
    planning, training and exercising SAR operations.
 </p>
 <p>To meet the requirements of the SAR services, the parties shall
    establish rescue Coordination centres<a href="#fn66"
       class="footnote-ref" id="fnref66" role="doc-noteref"><sup>66</sup></a>
    (RCC) and sub-centers (RSC) where appropriate.<a href="#fn67"
       class="footnote-ref" id="fnref67" role="doc-noteref"><sup>67</sup></a>
    RCCs are defined by chapter 1 paragraphs 1.3.5 and 1.3.6 SAR 1979 as
    units, responsible for the efficient organization of SAR services and
    for coordinating the SAR operations in the designated sea areas. RSCs
    are units to complement the RCC where necessary. These centers are part
    of the GMDSS, which the SOLAS 1974 introduced.<a href="#fn68"
       class="footnote-ref" id="fnref68"
       role="doc-noteref"><sup>68</sup></a>
 </p>
 <p>The third chapter is designated to administer the cooperation between
    the signing parties. The predominant interest of the founders is made
    clear in chapter 3 paragraph 3.1: <em>Parties shall coordinate their
    search and rescue organizations and should (…) coordinate</em> with the
    SAR services of the neighbouring States. Therefore, the concerned State
    should authorize <em>immediate entry into (…) its territorial sea (…)
    for the purpose of searching for the</em> people in distress.<br />
    The State in question then remains responsible for the coordination of
    the mission or hands over responsibility to another authority. Moreover,
    the convention urges the parties to enter into agreements to decrease
    the level of formalities needed for such an entry by chapter 3 paragraph
    3.1.5 SAR 1979.<br />
    Furthermore, the parties are obliged to ensure that the RCCs cooperate
    with each other by providing other RCCs with vessels, personnel or
    equipment.<a href="#fn69" class="footnote-ref" id="fnref69"
       role="doc-noteref"><sup>69</sup></a> Also, the parties shall authorize
    the responsible authorities to make operational plans and arrangements
    for SAR missions with the corresponding authorities of other States.
    Additionally, the parties shall <em>coordinate</em> that masters of
    vessels providing assistance are released from their obligations as soon
    as possible, so they can continue their voyage.<a href="#fn70"
       class="footnote-ref" id="fnref70"
       role="doc-noteref"><sup>70</sup></a>
 </p>
 <p>The intention of the writers of the convention are lucid in this
    context. The organization of such a critical situation as distress at
    sea is best dealt with by cooperating administrations. There shall be as
    little hinderance as possible for the success of SAR missions. Because
    people in distress do not take national borders into account while being
    in distress, an efficient SAR mission must not do so either.
 </p>
 <p>The most controversial evolution of the SAR framework was implemented
    in 2004. During the course of action of the <em>Tampa</em><a
       href="#fn71" class="footnote-ref" id="fnref71"
       role="doc-noteref"><sup>71</sup></a> incident in Australia a question
    that evolved in the years before became practically relevant. What
    happens after a person in distress is safely aboard the rescuing vessel?
    The answer to this question was addressed in the SAR 2004 amendment. It
    states that rescued people are to be delivered to a place of safety.
    However, taking into account that the SAR convention does not define the
    term “place of safety”, the newly introduced regulation lacks legal
    clarity.<a href="#fn72" class="footnote-ref" id="fnref72"
       role="doc-noteref"><sup>72</sup></a>
 </p>
 <p>Chapter five contains complementary provisions for the GMDSS by
    providing regulations for ship reporting systems. Against the
    background, that for the technical provisions of safety of vessels the
    SOLAS is the pertinent convention, chapter five focusses on the
    cooperation of States regarding ship reporting systems. It recommends,
    the reporting systems should be able to provide up to date information
    on the movements of vessels. The goal is to reduce the time between the
    distress signal and the successful rescue mission.<br />
    The fourth chapter introduces the International Maritime Search and
    Rescue Manual (IAMSAR).<a href="#fn73" class="footnote-ref" id="fnref73"
       role="doc-noteref"><sup>73</sup></a> The IAMSAR provides guidelines for
    an aligned operational approach to SAR services.<br />
    The SAR 1979 is the first convention not to focus on the prevention of
    distress at sea but on the way the reaction to a distress signal should
    be operated. How a distress situation is dealt with is part of an
    explanatory part in the following Paragraph.
 </p>
 <h4 id="subjects-to-sar-and-iamsar">Subjects to SAR and IAMSAR</h4>
 <p>The direct procedures considered for SAR in the IAMSAR are
    recommended in the second volume. The third volume provides suggestions
    of actions for masters of vessels on their way. It also provides
    suggestions regarding the training standards of the crews. The second
    volume provides an encyclopedic gathering of suggestions for the
    organizations concerned. The provisions from the IAMSAR are thus not
    binding but are sincere recommendations and recognized amongst
    seafarers.
 </p>
 <h4 id="the-procedure-of-search-and-rescue">The Procedure of Search and
    Rescue
 </h4>
 <p>The IAMSAR divides the procedures of SAR missions into five
    operational stages.<a href="#fn74" class="footnote-ref" id="fnref74"
       role="doc-noteref"><sup>74</sup></a> The stages are applied according to
    practicability. They can coincide or be applied concurrently. It is not
    necessary to begin with the first stage or to go through all stages. To
    give an impression on how an SAR mission could be exercised all stages
    are presented in a serial way.
 </p>
 <p>Whenever a SAR organization (most commonly an RCC) receives knowledge
    of a possible SAR situation, the Awareness stage is initiated.<a
       href="#fn75" class="footnote-ref" id="fnref75"
       role="doc-noteref"><sup>75</sup></a> At this stage all reports of the
    incident have to be evaluated to determine its validity, the urgency of
    the situation and the extent of the SAR mission required.<a href="#fn76"
       class="footnote-ref" id="fnref76" role="doc-noteref"><sup>76</sup></a>
    The Initial Action stage represents the first stage of response. At this
    stage two principles of SAR missions can be observed which are
    cooperation and coordination. These principles entail simplifying the
    mission´s proceeding by assigning someone responsible in advance. This
    is reflected by chapter 3.5.2 lit. (a) IAMSAR II which stipulates that
    the responsible organization should appoint a mission co-ordinator at
    this stage. To designate the responsible coordinator the IAMSAR holds a
    proceeding which should be followed. Normally, an RCC which receives a
    distress alert will assume responsibility for that incident. However,
    when the distress alert is received from outside the designated region
    the RCC advises other units in the vicinity. It is then to decide which
    organization is able to assist in the most effective way.<a href="#fn77"
       class="footnote-ref" id="fnref77" role="doc-noteref"><sup>77</sup></a>
    The responsible organization should then attempt to gather more
    information about the vessel in question<a href="#fn78"
       class="footnote-ref" id="fnref78" role="doc-noteref"><sup>78</sup></a>
    and request nearby ships to keep a lookout for the vessel.<a
       href="#fn79" class="footnote-ref" id="fnref79"
       role="doc-noteref"><sup>79</sup></a> The knowledge can be received by
    various installations of the GMDSS.<a href="#fn80" class="footnote-ref"
       id="fnref80" role="doc-noteref"><sup>80</sup></a> The vessel in distress
    may send a distress signal manually or automatically via EPIRB.
    Furthermore, if the RCC itself suspects a distress situation they can
    self-reliantly initiate the necessary stages.
 </p>
 <p>During the Planning stage, the SAR mission is planned
    comprehensively. After receiving knowledge of a distress situation, the
    location of the vessel in distress is the most crucial task. The
    uncertainty about the location of the vessel can severely impair the
    success of the mission. Therefore, IAMSAR holds an extensive catalogue
    of actions in store on how to proceed with or without digital support.<a
       href="#fn81" class="footnote-ref" id="fnref81"
       role="doc-noteref"><sup>81</sup></a> The procedure is the following:
    from a fixed datum, the last known position (LKP) has to be calculated.
    Notwithstanding the help of location service satellites and the help of
    nearby vessels, the LKP can result in a search radiant of five
    kilometers (about three nautical miles). From that point on, the actual
    position has to be estimated. The planned route of the ship, the sea and
    weather conditions, the swell and the drift from the currents have to be
    taken into consideration. These factors can affect the location
    drastically.
 </p>
 <p>The following Operation stage encompasses all activities that involve
    searching for the vessel and providing assistance.<a href="#fn82"
       class="footnote-ref" id="fnref82" role="doc-noteref"><sup>82</sup></a>
    This includes searching for the vessel using search patterns<a
       href="#fn83" class="footnote-ref" id="fnref83"
       role="doc-noteref"><sup>83</sup></a> and providing the gathered
    information to everyone concerned.<a href="#fn84" class="footnote-ref"
       id="fnref84" role="doc-noteref"><sup>84</sup></a> Following this, the
    survivors should be embarked to the saving vessel and should be provided
    with supplies and medical attention.<a href="#fn85" class="footnote-ref"
       id="fnref85" role="doc-noteref"><sup>85</sup></a>
 </p>
 <p>At the Conclusion stage the vessel is not in distress anymore, the
    survivors have been rescued or the responsible organization has
    determined that further search would be to no avail because additional
    search cannot effectively increase the chances of finding the distressed
    persons.<a href="#fn86" class="footnote-ref" id="fnref86"
       role="doc-noteref"><sup>86</sup></a> When the SAR mission is terminated,
    everyone concerned has to be notified.<a href="#fn87"
       class="footnote-ref" id="fnref87"
       role="doc-noteref"><sup>87</sup></a>
 </p>
 <p>The SAR 1979 provides additional Emergency phases to assist in
    determining the appropriate operating procedures,<a href="#fn88"
       class="footnote-ref" id="fnref88" role="doc-noteref"><sup>88</sup></a>
    namely the Uncertainty,- Alert,- and the Distress phase. These shall be
    applied according to practicability and are then supplemented by the
    operating procedures of the IAMSAR.<a href="#fn89" class="footnote-ref"
       id="fnref89" role="doc-noteref"><sup>89</sup></a> The Uncertainty phase
    and the Alert phase<a href="#fn90" class="footnote-ref" id="fnref90"
       role="doc-noteref"><sup>90</sup></a> may be applied during the initial
    action stage. The Planning stage often includes the Alert phase and the
    Distress phase.<a href="#fn91" class="footnote-ref" id="fnref91"
       role="doc-noteref"><sup>91</sup></a>
 </p>
 <h2 id="right-of-disembarkation">Right of Disembarkation</h2>
 <p>Albeit the comprehensive framework for the SAR missions there is a
    lack of regulations regarding actions to take once the survivors are
    onboard. The discussion of the scope of the right of disembarkation
    emerged with the rise of maritime migration<a href="#fn92"
       class="footnote-ref" id="fnref92" role="doc-noteref"><sup>92</sup></a>
    in the mid- 1970s and 80s. At the time many of the so called “boat
    people” fled from Vietnam and from other communist regimes on the
    Asian-oceanic continent. These people tried to get to other countries by
    using cheap and often unsecure boats. This is one of the reasons they
    often got in distress.<br />
    At the same time, the oceans became more accessible for private
    individuals and leisure yacht owners.<a href="#fn93"
       class="footnote-ref" id="fnref93" role="doc-noteref"><sup>93</sup></a>
    Oppositely to the historic seafarers which knew the perils of the sea
    and were greatly trained for merchant shipping on the high seas,<a
       href="#fn94" class="footnote-ref" id="fnref94"
       role="doc-noteref"><sup>94</sup></a> neither the refugees nor the
    leisure yacht-owners are traditional beneficiaries of SAR services. The
    first question to answer will be, if these individuals fall under the
    SAR conventions at all.
 </p>
 <h3 id="personal-applicability-of-the-sar-framework">Personal
    applicability of the SAR framework
 </h3>
 <p>SAR missions are targeted at persons or vessels in distress. Through
    requiring the masters of vessels to “render assistance to any person
    found at sea” the wording of Art. 98 UNCLOS makes clear, that no
    classification between rescues is permissible.<a href="#fn95"
       class="footnote-ref" id="fnref95" role="doc-noteref"><sup>95</sup></a>
    Furthermore, Art. 11 of the Brussels Convention for the Unification of
    Certain Rules with Respect to Assistance and Salvage at Sea (Convention
    on Salvage) from 1910 set rules to save everyone at sea regardless of
    whether they were enemies.<a href="#fn96" class="footnote-ref"
       id="fnref96" role="doc-noteref"><sup>96</sup></a> This view has been
    implicated into today´s most relevant treaties as seen in chapter 2
    paragraph 2.1.10 SAR 1979 which states that the States shall ensure that
    assistance is provided to any person regardless of the nationality, the
    status or the circumstances in which that person is found. At occasions
    where distressed people were rejected from entering State territory it
    was never questioned, if the people should be saved at all.<a
       href="#fn97" class="footnote-ref" id="fnref97"
       role="doc-noteref"><sup>97</sup></a> This can be called a clue that
    extending the search and rescue obligation to private individuals (in
    contrast to seafarers) evolved to be part of the longstanding State
    practice of rendering assistance to people in distress. As an example
    the Disembarkation Resettlement Offers Scheme (DISERO) from the 1970s
    can be named. DISERO resulted from the cooperation of the United Nations
    High Commissioner for Refugees (UNHCR) and many States which prepared
    the allowance of disembarkation in exchange for guarantees that other
    States would grant permanent protection to the refugees.<a href="#fn98"
       class="footnote-ref" id="fnref98" role="doc-noteref"><sup>98</sup></a>
    As an example for early State practice the <em>Tampa</em> incident<a
       href="#fn99" class="footnote-ref" id="fnref99"
       role="doc-noteref"><sup>99</sup></a> which took place near the
    Australian Christmas islands in 2001 shall be considered. The Australian
    RCC ordered the <em>Tampa</em> to rescue people in distress and later,
    refused the ship entrance to its territory.<a href="#fn100"
       class="footnote-ref" id="fnref100" role="doc-noteref"><sup>100</sup></a>
    Nevertheless, the initial response was to acknowledge the right of the
    distressed people to be rescued.
 </p>
 <p>In comparison to this, the so called “refugee crisis” in the
    Mediterranean, which peaked in 2015 can be considered as an example,
    where the practice of States was similar. The question never was if the
    people in distress had to be saved, but where they were to be
    disembarked.<a href="#fn101" class="footnote-ref" id="fnref101"
       role="doc-noteref"><sup>101</sup></a> Moreover, one may say, that in
    addition to the State practice<a href="#fn102" class="footnote-ref"
       id="fnref102" role="doc-noteref"><sup>102</sup></a> saving all people
    from distress is not done voluntarily but because the State community
    recognizes it as a legal obligation.
 </p>
 <p>Once clarified that every person in distress falls within the scope
    of the SAR regime, it is now time to analyse what obligations the States
    have regarding the disembarkment of survivors.
 </p>
 <h3 id="disembarkation-under-the-law-of-the-sea">Disembarkation under
    the law of the Sea
 </h3>
 <p>The first legal foundation seems to be the law of the sea as it
    constitutes the most specialized regulations for seafarers.<br />
    The center of dispute poses chapter 3 paragraph 3.1.9 SAR 1979:
 </p>
 <p><em>Parties shall co-ordinate and co-operate to ensure that masters
    of ships providing assistance by embarking persons in distress at sea
    are released from their obligations with minimum further deviation from
    the ships´ intended voyage, (…) The Party responsible for the search and
    rescue region in which such assistance is rendered shall exercise
    primary responsibility for ensuring such co-ordination and co-operation
    occurs, so that survivors assisted are disembarked from the assisting
    ship and delivered to a place of safety,(…).</em>
 </p>
 <h4 id="constitution-of-a-place-of-safety">Constitution of a Place of
    Safety
 </h4>
 <p>The first term from the regulation which must be considered is the
    term “place of safety”. The term is used in chapter 3 paragraphs 3.1.9
    and 1.3.2 SAR 1979 but never defined. A definition of a place of safety
    can only be taken from chapter paragraph 6.12 of the IMO Guidelines on
    the Treatment of Persons Rescued at Sea.<a href="#fn103"
       class="footnote-ref" id="fnref103"
       role="doc-noteref"><sup>103</sup></a><br />
    The IMO Guidelines were introduced by the Maritime Safety Committee to
    clarify procedures to provide survivors with a place of safety. The
    Guidelines complement the SAR 1979 which is why they are referred to at
    this point.<br />
    Chapter 6 paragraph 6.12 of the Guidelines defines a place of safety as
    a location where rescue missions terminate. The place of safety is one
    where the life of the survivors is no longer threatened, as their basic
    human needs can be met and arrangements for transportation to the
    survivor´s next or final destination can be undertaken.<a href="#fn104"
       class="footnote-ref" id="fnref104"
       role="doc-noteref"><sup>104</sup></a><br />
    Thus, what constitutes a place of safety must be evaluated on a case by
    case decision.<a href="#fn105" class="footnote-ref" id="fnref105"
       role="doc-noteref"><sup>105</sup></a> The place of safety may therefore
    be aboard a vessel, a facility at sea or the most common place
    ashore.<br />
    Some authors state that the rescue unit itself can only provisionally be
    the place of safety.<a href="#fn106" class="footnote-ref" id="fnref106"
       role="doc-noteref"><sup>106</sup></a> In fact, chapter 6 paragraph 6.13
    of the IMO Guidelines stipulates that an assisting ship should not be
    considered a place of safety solely based on the fact that the survivors
    are no longer in immediate danger, although the ship is capable of
    providing the survivors with the necessary support.<a href="#fn107"
       class="footnote-ref" id="fnref107" role="doc-noteref"><sup>107</sup></a>
    Taking paragraph 6.13 of the Guidelines literally, a ship may be a place
    of safety if the reason therefore is not only the absence of lethal
    threat. If a capable ship could not represent a permanent place of
    safety, this would lead to perplexing results. The term “temporary”
    means the status vanishes after time. It is not clear what a “temporary”
    time is. Once the “temporary state” ceases, the vessel would become an
    unsuitable place of safety, thereby making it challenging to say in what
    status the person is. If the person aboard was in distress, the
    responsible SAR State would be obliged to perform SAR services. However,
    SAR services are to be aimed at distressed people, and the people on the
    vessel are <em>de facto</em> not in distress. In the opinion of the
    author a vessel can therefore be a terminal place of safety.
 </p>
 <p>Lastly, it remains to be stated that not always the port of the
    responsible State of the Rescue area is the one most suitable for the
    sake of SAR.<a href="#fn108" class="footnote-ref" id="fnref108"
       role="doc-noteref"><sup>108</sup></a> Therefore the greatest possible
    flexibility is needed for determining the most suitable place of safety
    as every SAR situation is different. If the SAR 1979 was too strict in
    its obligations there would be no room for these dynamics.
 </p>
 <h4 id="state-obligations">State Obligations</h4>
 <p>Chapter 3 paragraph 3.1.9 SAR 1979 emphasizes the duty of the
    responsible State to coordinate and cooperate to release the assisting
    vessels of their duties to assist vessels in distress. It is noticeable,
    that the convention does not provide a definition for the term
    “assistance”, although it is used in several important regulations such
    as chapter 2 and 3 paragraphs 2.1.10 and 3.1.9 SAR 1979.<br />
    Hence, it can be followed, that “assistance” contains a narrower scope
    of obligation than the term “rescue”, which is defined as “<em>(A)n
    operation to retrieve persons in distress, provide for their initial
    medical or other needs, and deliver them to a place of safety</em>”.<a
       href="#fn109" class="footnote-ref" id="fnref109"
       role="doc-noteref"><sup>109</sup></a><br />
    Although the usage of the term “rescue” can be described as narrow,<a
       href="#fn110" class="footnote-ref" id="fnref110"
       role="doc-noteref"><sup>110</sup></a> and therefore a lack of legal
    obligation, the term could not have been used in chapter 3 paragraph
    3.1.9 SAR 1979 as it contradicts the intention of the provision to
    release the masters of the assisting ships from their obligations to
    minimize deviation of the ships voyage. If the term “rescue” would have
    been used, the Flag States would be obliged to order the ships
    “rescuing” the distressed people to provide for the survivors needs and
    bring them to a place of safety other than the vessel itself. The same
    is true for paragraph 2.1.10 SAR as every vessel providing assistance
    would then have to be obliged by the responsible State to deliver the
    rescues to a place of safety contrary to chapter 3 paragraph 3.1.9 SAR
    1979.<a href="#fn111" class="footnote-ref" id="fnref111"
       role="doc-noteref"><sup>111</sup></a>
 </p>
 <p>Provision 3.1.9 SAR 1979 stipulates the “primary responsibility” of
    the States as to ensure, that co-ordination and co-operation “occurs”,<a
       href="#fn112" class="footnote-ref" id="fnref112"
       role="doc-noteref"><sup>112</sup></a> with the goal of disembarkment
    from the assisting ship to a place of safety. However, it is by no means
    clear, what the measures are, the responsible State is required to take.
    Some authors take the view that States had the duty to secure a certain
    result.<a href="#fn113" class="footnote-ref" id="fnref113"
       role="doc-noteref"><sup>113</sup></a> Another one says the
    disembarkation to a permanent place of safety is only mandatory for the
    responsible State of the SAR region if no other State offers
    disembarkation to their territory.<a href="#fn114" class="footnote-ref"
       id="fnref114" role="doc-noteref"><sup>114</sup></a> At least, as some
    say, this applies if there are no other options.<a href="#fn115"
       class="footnote-ref" id="fnref115"
       role="doc-noteref"><sup>115</sup></a><br />
    These opinions derive from the expressed intentions of the drafters
    which describe the intent of chapter 3 paragraph 3.1.9 as to provide a
    place of safety within reasonable time <a href="#fn116"
       class="footnote-ref" id="fnref116" role="doc-noteref"><sup>116</sup></a>
    and the interpretation of paragraph 2.5 of the Guidelines of the IMO
    with the same wording.<a href="#fn117" class="footnote-ref"
       id="fnref117" role="doc-noteref"><sup>117</sup></a> Paragraph 2.5 of the
    IMO Guidelines furthermore stipulates the intention of chapter 3
    paragraph 3.1.9 SAR 1979 as a provision to make the States responsible
    for providing a place of safety. Taking this wording literally the
    responsible State had to provide a place of safety. Although this seems
    like an alluringly easy answer, the wording of 3.1.9 SAR 1979 is not
    open to that interpretation as it does not speak of a State
    responsibility of providing a place of safety.<a href="#fn118"
       class="footnote-ref" id="fnref118"
       role="doc-noteref"><sup>118</sup></a><br />
    There is clearly a dissent in the scope of the regulations. It needs to
    be decided which of the frameworks prevails.<br />
    Because the IMO Guidelines have no binding effect of its own they cannot
    precede the regulations of the SAR 1979.<a href="#fn119"
       class="footnote-ref" id="fnref119" role="doc-noteref"><sup>119</sup></a>
    This can be followed off the Guidelines´ preamble which states the
    “adoption of the Guidelines” in contrast to the preamble on the 2004
    amendment which states an “adoption of amendments to the convention.”
    Amendments are reforms with a legal basis in the convention, guidelines
    are not.<br />
    Moreover, chapter 3 paragraph 3.1.9 SAR1979 outmaneuvers the Guidelines
    itself as it states that the Guidelines should only be taken “into
    account”.<a href="#fn120" class="footnote-ref" id="fnref120"
       role="doc-noteref"><sup>120</sup></a> The choice of wording displays the
    aspiration of the States as it is very vague and has been therefore
    called a “diplomatic formula compromise”.<a href="#fn121"
       class="footnote-ref" id="fnref121"
       role="doc-noteref"><sup>121</sup></a>
 </p>
 <p>This has led to the question how a State is supposed to fulfil the
    primary responsibility of ensuring cooperation and coordination leading
    to the survivors´ disembarkation if all other States refuse to allow the
    disembarkation in its territory.<a href="#fn122" class="footnote-ref"
       id="fnref122" role="doc-noteref"><sup>122</sup></a> To the background of
    practicability, it is comprehensible that the result of survivors
    staying on a boat for weeks, not knowing what is going to happen next
    can be unsatisfactory. The rescued people will have to be disembarked
    somewhere. The lack of regulation of this question is exactly why this
    topic is so controversial. The written obligations and the system of the
    convention are clear: the masters of the vessels shall be obliged to
    render assistance, and the States are explicitly solely obliged to
    coordinate and to cooperate with the goal of disembarkation to a place
    of safety. This is perfectly legitimate as the aim of the SAR 1979 is to
    bring situations of distress to an immediate end. Ultimately, the
    convention is a treaty, made by the member States which want to be as
    less obliged as possible.
 </p>
 <h3
    id="disembarkation-under-the-principle-of-non-refoulment-included-in-the-sar-framework">Disembarkation
    under the principle of non refoulment included in the SAR framework
 </h3>
 <p>Whether a State duty to disembarkation exists, not solely under the
    law of the sea but under the principle of non-refoulment in conjunction
    with the law of the sea, is heavily debated amongst legal scholars. The
    principle of non-refoulment is said to constitute a <em>de facto</em>
    State duty to disembarkation on State territory in situations of saving
    refugees at sea.<br />
    The principle of non-refoulment is stipulated in Art. 33 of the
    Convention Relating to the status of Refugees (Geneva Convention).
    Thereby, returning a refugee<a href="#fn123" class="footnote-ref"
       id="fnref123" role="doc-noteref"><sup>123</sup></a> to territory where
    life or freedom would be threatened is prohibited.<a href="#fn124"
       class="footnote-ref" id="fnref124"
       role="doc-noteref"><sup>124</sup></a><br />
    It seems, that this prohibition could derive from the SAR 1979 in the
    same way as the SAR is the pertinent convention for persons saved at
    sea.<a href="#fn125" class="footnote-ref" id="fnref125"
       role="doc-noteref"><sup>125</sup></a> If the SAR 1979 prohibited
    disembarkation to territory where the survivor would be threatened, a
    right not to be disembarked in certain States would be the result. This
    right could be included in the definition of place of safety as a place
    where a person is threatened cannot be referred to as “safe” place.
    However, if this is the case is controversial.<br />
    Due to a lack of inherent definition of a place of safety in the SAR
    1979, applying other framework has to be considered. The IMO Guidelines
    define a place of safety as a place where the safety of life is no
    longer threatened.<a href="#fn126" class="footnote-ref" id="fnref126"
       role="doc-noteref"><sup>126</sup></a> A few arguments speak in favor of
    the overlapping meaning of the definition in the SAR 1979 and the IMO
    Guidelines. The definition from the Guidelines is the only one existing
    in the pertinent framework. The Guidelines complement the SAR´s
    regulations whenever it is not comprehensive. This does not mean that
    the Guidelines are per se binding but certain definitions can be taken
    over. Furthermore, taking over the definition of place of safety to SAR
    1979 does not result in any further proceeding obligations for
    States.<br />
    Following the arguments in favor of the takeover, the scope of the
    definition has to be interpreted. The wording “<em>no longer
    threatened</em>” can be conceived as that only threats that existed
    before and continued at the place where the person is brought to fall
    under the definition. This easily applies to distress at sea. Strictly
    speaking the same can be said for the situation of a refugee: formerly
    in danger in the country seeking refuge from, the refugee is then saved
    from this immanent threat. Brought back to the same place, the same
    threat continues. Another fact that speaks in favor of the inclusion of
    the principle of non refoulment in the assessment of a place of safety
    is paragraph 6.17 of the Guidelines. This regulation stands in the same
    chapter as the definition and qualifies the place of safety by stating
    that the avoidance of disembarking survivors in territories, where the
    lives of those would be threatened are to be taken into
    consideration.
 </p>
 <p>However, the above-mentioned questions only apply when it comes to
    refugee law. Therefore chapter 6 paragraphs 6.19 and 6.20 of the
    Guidelines have to be considered. These provisions stipulate “Non-SAR
    considerations” which cover survivors who are migrants or asylum
    seekers.<a href="#fn127" class="footnote-ref" id="fnref127"
       role="doc-noteref"><sup>127</sup></a> Those are within the scope of
    responsibility of the appropriate authorities, at the place of safety.<a
       href="#fn128" class="footnote-ref" id="fnref128"
       role="doc-noteref"><sup>128</sup></a> The regulation ensures the
    inapplicability of SAR law once the people are at a place of safety.<a
       href="#fn129" class="footnote-ref" id="fnref129"
       role="doc-noteref"><sup>129</sup></a>
 </p>
 <p>Following this, it can be concluded, that the principle of
    non-refoulment is not included in the SAR framework.
 </p>
 <h3 id="disembarkation-under-general-refugee-law">Disembarkation under
    general refugee law
 </h3>
 <p>The general rule of the Geneva convention has to be applied as the
    next closest framework for questions of refugees.<br />
    The overall argument to conclude a (at least temporary) right of
    disembarkation under refugee law is as follows: because the Geneva
    convention in Art.32 requires the parties to examine the status of each
    person which could possibly have a right to asylum thoroughly, the
    refugees have to be brought ashore because this examination can not
    adequately take place on the vessel.<a href="#fn130"
       class="footnote-ref" id="fnref130" role="doc-noteref"><sup>130</sup></a>
    This argument is partially supported by the UNHCR Expert “Roundtable”
    when it comes to private vessels. The decision was taken, that
    non-governmental ships are inadequate for these examinations.<a
       href="#fn131" class="footnote-ref" id="fnref131"
       role="doc-noteref"><sup>131</sup></a> Because the convention is
    applicable in the territorial waters, this view is agreed on by a
    majority regarding rescuees who already entered these waters.<a
       href="#fn132" class="footnote-ref" id="fnref132"
       role="doc-noteref"><sup>132</sup></a> This approach seems to be adequate
    as it contains appropriate solutions for the situations. A person
    entering the State on land territory can submit his claim more easily
    than one entering State territory by sea. Both refugees are entitled to
    the same possibilities of submitting their claim. Due to the principle
    of equal treatment this approach is adequate.<br />
    Especially, if there are many people rescued at once it is often not
    possible for the State to examine the claims made by the refugees as
    easily as ashore. Also, these examinations have to be fair and
    effective<a href="#fn133" class="footnote-ref" id="fnref133"
       role="doc-noteref"><sup>133</sup></a> and have to be open to effective
    remedies against the decisions.<a href="#fn134" class="footnote-ref"
       id="fnref134" role="doc-noteref"><sup>134</sup></a> This leads to the
    practical obligation to disembark the survivors on the land territory as
    long as examination of the status and the time for appeal last.
 </p>
 <p>If the legal outcome is the same when refugees did not yet enter
    zones under State sovereignty, the legal debate is far more
    controversial. This is because the extraterritorial applicability of the
    Geneva convention is disputed.<a href="#fn135" class="footnote-ref"
       id="fnref135" role="doc-noteref"><sup>135</sup></a> If the convention is
    not to be applied in the EEZ or the High Seas, a right of disembarkation
    like the one above mentioned cannot follow.
 </p>
 <h3 id="conclusion-to-the-right-of-disembarkation">Conclusion to the
    right of Disembarkation
 </h3>
 <p>A right of disembarkation from a safe vessel to a particular place
    can only result from other international law than the law of the sea.
    There seems to be certainty regarding a right of disembarkation as long
    as the examination of the refugee status goes if this cannot be done on
    the vessel. Thus, this goes only if the refugee accessed territorial
    waters of the State. If the person is saved from distress in the EEZ or
    the High Seas, there is no right to disembarkation to a particular
    place. Nevertheless, the person has to be disembarked somewhere. Thus,
    none of the relevant treaties addresses this adequately. In practice if
    no State is willing to allow disembarkation there are only a few
    practical choices left 1st disembarkation to the nearest port 2nd
    disembarkation to the port of the Flag State 3rd disembarkation to the
    responsible State of the SAR Region.<br />
    From a law of the sea perspective, there is no obligation of the coastal
    State to accept disembarkation. From a human rights perspective there is
    no obligation to accept disembarkation to a specific State. This applies
    to everyone in distress and not only refugees. Thus the problem
    practically only arises in the context of refugees.
 </p>
 <h2 id="upcoming-changes-to-search-and-rescue-at-sea">Upcoming changes
    to Search and Rescue at Sea
 </h2>
 <p>The only newly adopted amendments important to SAR are amendments
    regarding the SOLAS 1974 convention, which are going to enter into force
    in 2024.<a href="#fn136" class="footnote-ref" id="fnref136"
       role="doc-noteref"><sup>136</sup></a> These amendments include
    regulations for the fire safety systems, life-saving appliances and
    general renovations of the requirements for lifeboats. Furthermore,
    chapter 2 of SOLAS will be adopted and will then include regulations for
    mooring and towing arrangements.<br />
    There are no changes made regarding the right of disembarkation.
    Concerning the ongoing discussion in Europe this comes not as a big
    surprise. Nevertheless seeing that the SAR framework is adopting
    frequently is a good sign for safety at sea in general.
 </p>
 <h2 id="final-remarks">Final remarks</h2>
 <p>Overall, SAR has been a very successful evolution. From the beginning
    of the first written codification of the obligation to render assistance
    to persons in distress to an elaborate framework for merchant vessels
    has developed considerably. Notwithstanding rendering assistance at sea
    is still very complicated due to the size and sea-immanent difficulties
    of the ocean, the safety of going to sea has increased a lot. This can
    be noted in the fact that nowadays more and more people are going to sea
    just for leisure activities. Therefore, the consignees of SAR services
    have changed significantly. The States now have to provide their
    services to people which the States did not include initially such as
    refugees and leisure yacht owners.<br />
    It may come to question if a new system of compensation, e.g. an
    insurance for every ship registered in the member States, should be
    established. If the responsible SAR State is affected i.a.
    environmentally, the coastal State would not have the sole financial
    burden.<a href="#fn137" class="footnote-ref" id="fnref137"
       role="doc-noteref"><sup>137</sup></a><br />
    In light of the far more controversial lack of regulation that the SAR
    framework pertains, finding a legal solution to the right of
    disembarkation seems desirable. A clear separational line must be drawn
    to distinguish between the question of a right to disembarkation of
    non-refugees and refugees.<br />
    For the former category there does not seem to be a problem concerning
    disembarkment. There is no need for an additional regulation or
    framework as the distress situation is over and the survivor will at
    some point be disembarked to a place from whereon he or she can get to
    their final destination. For the latter category (refugees), the lack of
    a binding regulation is far more concerning. Waiting aboard a vessel for
    several weeks is a possible result of being rescued at sea. Because the
    situation is so different to when non-refugees are rescued, it does not
    seem to be the right step to solely apply SAR law to these situations.
    SAR´s function has always been to improve safety at sea. SAR missions´
    are aimed at rescuing persons from distress and bringing them to a place
    of safety. A person planning to stay for a long period of time at the
    place disembarked to, additionally making an asylum claim can become a
    burden for the State. This is not a situation the SAR framework should
    be applicable to.
 </p>
 <p>A few options of new regulations can be considered. 1. Additionally
    to the definition of a place of safety, a legal obligation to the SAR
    conventions could be amended stipulating the obligation to disembark
    survivors at a certain place. Thus, this proposal will presumably not be
    met with applause as even the 2004 amendment, introducing the obligation
    to coordinate and cooperate with the goal to provide a place of safety
    did not get ratified by important States such as Malta. Since these
    conventions where not particularly binding, more binding conventions
    might have little chance of being successfully ratified. Furthermore the
    question what the best suitable place of safety is would complicate
    future negotiations as there is a variety of possibilities.<a
       href="#fn138" class="footnote-ref" id="fnref138"
       role="doc-noteref"><sup>138</sup></a> 2. An alternative to changing the
    SAR framework could be the establishment of a set of rules concerning
    the special situation of refugees at sea. This could be done by obliging
    the coastal State to firstly grant the rescuing vessel entry into the
    port and secondly let the refugees enter the territory. These
    regulations would have to be complemented with a system of distributing
    the asylum seekers and refugees amongst the State community otherwise,
    the coastal State could lack motivation to grant the people entry into
    its territory. This approach would best work with many States in near
    geographical and or political proximity because States far from sharing
    political or geographical adjacency would supposedly not be open to such
    a collaboration. This approach is currently discussed between the EU
    member States<a href="#fn139" class="footnote-ref" id="fnref139"
       role="doc-noteref"><sup>139</sup></a> and is maybe a good way of
    balancing State interests albeit more efficient ways of dealing with
    migration can be observed in dealing with the root of migration.
    Transitionally, situations such as in the Mediterranean are best dealt
    with by multilateral agreements.
 </p>
 <section id="footnotes" class="footnotes footnotes-end-of-document"
    role="doc-endnotes">
    <hr />
    <ol>
       <li id="fn1">
          <p>Albert Gerdes, <span>“Wie Groß Sind Die Sieben
             Weltmeere?”</span> &lt;<a
                href="https://www.wissenschaft-im-dialog.de/projekte/wieso/artikel/beitrag/wie-gross-sind-die-sieben-weltmeere/#:~:text=70,8%20Prozent%20der%20Erdoberfläche,etwa%201.35%20Milliarden%20Kubikkilometern%20Salzwasser.">https://www.wissenschaft-im-dialog.de/projekte/wieso/artikel/beitrag/wie-gross-sind-die-sieben-weltmeere/#:~:text=70,8
             Prozent der Erdoberfläche,etwa 1.35 Milliarden Kubikkilometern
             Salzwasser.</a>&gt;.<a href="#fnref1" class="footnote-back"
                role="doc-backlink">↩︎</a>
          </p>
       </li>
       <li id="fn2">
          <p>Jan Henne, <span>“Point Nemo - Das Ist Der Abgelegenste
             Ort Der Erde”</span> &lt;<a
                href="https://www.geo.de/natur/naturwunder-erde/17257-rtkl-point-nemo-das-ist-der-abgelegenste-ort-der-erde"
                class="uri">https://www.geo.de/natur/naturwunder-erde/17257-rtkl-point-nemo-das-ist-der-abgelegenste-ort-der-erde</a>&gt;.<a
                href="#fnref2" class="footnote-back" role="doc-backlink">↩︎</a>
          </p>
       </li>
       <li id="fn3">
          <p>Robert D Ballard and Rick Archbold, <em>Das Geheimnis
             Der Titanic: 3800 Meter Unter Wasser</em> (Ullstein 1987) 299.<a
                href="#fnref3" class="footnote-back" role="doc-backlink">↩︎</a>
          </p>
       </li>
       <li id="fn4">
          <p>Ibid 199.<a href="#fnref4" class="footnote-back"
             role="doc-backlink">↩︎</a></p>
       </li>
       <li id="fn5">
          <p>Greg Ward, <span>“The Rough Guide to the Titanic”</span>
             79.<a href="#fnref5" class="footnote-back"
                role="doc-backlink">↩︎</a>
          </p>
       </li>
       <li id="fn6">
          <p>United Nations, <span>“International Convention on
             Maritime Search and Rescue”</span> chapter 2.1.1.<a href="#fnref6"
                class="footnote-back" role="doc-backlink">↩︎</a>
          </p>
       </li>
       <li id="fn7">
          <p>See United Nations, <span>“International Convention for
             the Safety of Life at Sea”</span> regulation 10 lit h iv 1, Chapter V
             regulation 12, regulation 11 lit. a viii.<a href="#fnref7"
                class="footnote-back" role="doc-backlink">↩︎</a>
          </p>
       </li>
       <li id="fn8">
          <p>See chapter 3.2. page 8.<a href="#fnref8"
             class="footnote-back" role="doc-backlink">↩︎</a></p>
       </li>
       <li id="fn9">
          <p>Yoshifumi Tanaka, <em>The International Law of the
             Sea</em> (third, Cambridge University Press 2019) 99.<a href="#fnref9"
                class="footnote-back" role="doc-backlink">↩︎</a>
          </p>
       </li>
       <li id="fn10">
          <p>Tanaka, (n 9) p.99 with the same result but who
             understands the burden of proof as a fourth requirement; Lord Stowell,
             <span>“The Eleanor Case”</span> p.1068.<a href="#fnref10"
                class="footnote-back" role="doc-backlink">↩︎</a>
          </p>
       </li>
       <li id="fn11">
          <p>Tanaka (n 9) 100; Robin Rolf Churchill and Alan Vaughan
             Lowe, <em>The Law of the Sea</em> (3rd edn, Juris Publishing 1999)
             176.<a href="#fnref11" class="footnote-back"
                role="doc-backlink">↩︎</a>
          </p>
       </li>
       <li id="fn12">
          <p>The Irish Reports, <span>“ACT Shipping Ltd .v. Minister
             for the Marine Ireland”</span> 406.<a href="#fnref12"
                class="footnote-back" role="doc-backlink">↩︎</a>
          </p>
       </li>
       <li id="fn13">
          <p>Nations (n 6).<a href="#fnref13" class="footnote-back"
             role="doc-backlink">↩︎</a></p>
       </li>
       <li id="fn14">
          <p>Merriam-Webster, <span>“Distress, Definition 3”</span>
             &lt;<a href="https://www.merriam-webster.com/dictionary/distress"
                class="uri">https://www.merriam-webster.com/dictionary/distress</a>&gt;;
             Luca Koukounakis, <span>“Seevölkerrechtliche Pflichten Im Fall von
             Seenotrettung”</span> (2019) 01/2019 Studentische Zeitschrift für
             Rechtswissenschaft StudZR 156 p.165.<a href="#fnref14"
                class="footnote-back" role="doc-backlink">↩︎</a>
          </p>
       </li>
       <li id="fn15">
          <p>Koukounakis (n 14) 166; Tanaka (n 9) 100; Churchill and
             Lowe (n 11) 63; different in evaluation Inken von Gadow-Stephani,
             <em>Der Zugang Zu Nothäfen Und Sonstigen Notliegeplätzen Für Schiffe in
             Seenot</em> (1 Aufl, Springer 2006) S. 417f; only Roland Bank,
             <span>“Introduction to Art. 11: A Commentary”</span> in Andreas
             Zimmermann and Jonas Dörschner (eds), <em>The 1951 convention relating
             to the status of refugees and its 1967 protocol</em> (Oxford Univ Press
             2011) 822 with a completely different view.<a href="#fnref15"
                class="footnote-back" role="doc-backlink">↩︎</a>
          </p>
       </li>
       <li id="fn16">
          <p>Koukounakis, (n 14) p. 165; Churchill and Lowe, (n 11).
             S. 63; Gadow-Stephani, (n 15). S. 225,267 f.; Guy S Goodwin-Gill,
             <span>“The Right to Seek Asylum: Interception at Sea and the Principle
             of Non-Refoulement”</span> (2011) 23 International Journal of Refugee
             Law 443. S. 274; Tanaka, (n 9). S. 81 f.; International Law Commission,
             <span>“Responsibility of States for Internationally Wrongful Acts: U.n.
             Doc. A/56/10.”</span> Art. 24 commentary Rn. 6; Bank, (n 15). S. 821;
             Richard Barnes, <span>“Refugee Law at Sea”</span> (2004) 1 The
             international and comparative law quarterly 47. S. 60.<a href="#fnref16"
                class="footnote-back" role="doc-backlink">↩︎</a>
          </p>
       </li>
       <li id="fn17">
          <p>For an extensive assembly of Definitions see
             Gadow-Stephani, (n 15) pp. 213.<a href="#fnref17" class="footnote-back"
                role="doc-backlink">↩︎</a>
          </p>
       </li>
       <li id="fn18">
          <p>ProfJean-Denis Bredin Eduardo Jimenez de Aréchaga Sir
             Kenneth Keith, <span>“Decision on New Zealand Vs. France: Rainbow
             Warrior Affair”</span>; Commission, (n 16). Art. 23 commentary to Rn. 6;
             Koukounakis, (n 14) p. 165.<a href="#fnref18" class="footnote-back"
                role="doc-backlink">↩︎</a>
          </p>
       </li>
       <li id="fn19">
          <p>The character of customary law is fully supported by
             expert commentators including: Churchill and Lowe, (n 11) p. 63; Erik
             Røsœg, <span>“Refugees as Rescuees: The Tampa Problem”</span>
             <span>[</span>2002<span>]</span> Simply 43. S. 57; Barnes, (n 16) p. 58;
             Gadow-Stephani, (n 15). S. 327; Alexander Proelß, <span>“Rescue at Sea
             Revisited: What Obligations Exist Towards Refugees?”</span> S. 21;
             Tanaka, (n 9) p. 101; Koukounakis, (n 14) p. 165.<a href="#fnref19"
                class="footnote-back" role="doc-backlink">↩︎</a>
          </p>
       </li>
       <li id="fn20">
          <p>See chapter 4 for the discussion on the right of
             disembarkation.<a href="#fnref20" class="footnote-back"
                role="doc-backlink">↩︎</a>
          </p>
       </li>
       <li id="fn21">
          <p>International Maritime Conference, <span>“International
             Convention on Safety of Life at Sea.”</span><a href="#fnref21"
                class="footnote-back" role="doc-backlink">↩︎</a>
          </p>
       </li>
       <li id="fn22">
          <p>Nations (n 7).<a href="#fnref22" class="footnote-back"
             role="doc-backlink">↩︎</a></p>
       </li>
       <li id="fn23">
          <p>International Maritime Conference, <span>“International
             Convention for the Safety of Life at Sea.”</span><a href="#fnref23"
                class="footnote-back" role="doc-backlink">↩︎</a>
          </p>
       </li>
       <li id="fn24">
          <p>International Maritime Conference, <span>“International
             Regulations for Preventing Collisions.”</span><a href="#fnref24"
                class="footnote-back" role="doc-backlink">↩︎</a>
          </p>
       </li>
       <li id="fn25">
          <p>Nations (n 6).<a href="#fnref25" class="footnote-back"
             role="doc-backlink">↩︎</a></p>
       </li>
       <li id="fn26">
          <p>United Nations, <span>“Adoption of Amendments to the
             International Convention on Maritime Search and Rescue, 1979.”</span><a
                href="#fnref26" class="footnote-back" role="doc-backlink">↩︎</a>
          </p>
       </li>
       <li id="fn27">
          <p>United Nations, <span>“Adoption of Amendments to the
             International Convention on Maritime Search and Rescue, 1979, as
             Amendet.”</span><a href="#fnref27" class="footnote-back"
                role="doc-backlink">↩︎</a>
          </p>
       </li>
       <li id="fn28">
          <p>Conference, (n 21) preamble.<a href="#fnref28"
             class="footnote-back" role="doc-backlink">↩︎</a></p>
       </li>
       <li id="fn29">
          <p>Conference, ibid. Annex Art. I.<a href="#fnref29"
             class="footnote-back" role="doc-backlink">↩︎</a></p>
       </li>
       <li id="fn30">
          <p>Ibid Art. 34 I.<a href="#fnref30" class="footnote-back"
             role="doc-backlink">↩︎</a></p>
       </li>
       <li id="fn31">
          <p>Ibid Art. 34 II.<a href="#fnref31"
             class="footnote-back" role="doc-backlink">↩︎</a></p>
       </li>
       <li id="fn32">
          <p>Ibid Art. 40.<a href="#fnref32" class="footnote-back"
             role="doc-backlink">↩︎</a></p>
       </li>
       <li id="fn33">
          <p>For a brief insight of how the convention was received
             see the Analysis of the SOLAS 1914 by then President of the Seamen’s
             Union Andrew Furuseth, <span>“Analysis and Explanatory Notes of the
             SOLAS 1914”</span>.<a href="#fnref33" class="footnote-back"
                role="doc-backlink">↩︎</a>
          </p>
       </li>
       <li id="fn34">
          <p>Art. 8 lit b vi 2 aa and bb Nations, (n 7) presume,
             that submitted amendments are accepted after either two years from the
             time on it is communicated for acceptance or at the end of a different
             period if so decided by a specified majority of the contracting States.
             The only way of preventing an amendment from entering into force is the
             objection to it from a specified majority of contracting States or a
             large proportion of naval power.<a href="#fnref34" class="footnote-back"
                role="doc-backlink">↩︎</a>
          </p>
       </li>
       <li id="fn35">
          <p>Such as Nations, (n 26) and Nations, (n 27); For a
             comprehensive view of the amendments adopted visit Maritime Safety
             Committee, <span>“Index of IMO Resolutions”</span> &lt;<a
                href="https://www.imo.org/en/KnowledgeCentre/IndexofIMOResolutions/Pages/MSC.aspx"
                class="uri">https://www.imo.org/en/KnowledgeCentre/IndexofIMOResolutions/Pages/MSC.aspx</a>&gt;.<a
                href="#fnref35" class="footnote-back" role="doc-backlink">↩︎</a>
          </p>
       </li>
       <li id="fn36">
          <p>Chapter I regulations 12 ff. Nations, (n 7).<a
             href="#fnref36" class="footnote-back" role="doc-backlink">↩︎</a></p>
       </li>
       <li id="fn37">
          <p>United Nations, <span>“United Convention on the Law of
             the Sea”</span> Art. 92 I, 94 I, III lit. a).<a href="#fnref37"
                class="footnote-back" role="doc-backlink">↩︎</a>
          </p>
       </li>
       <li id="fn38">
          <p>Chapter 3.3.<a href="#fnref38" class="footnote-back"
             role="doc-backlink">↩︎</a></p>
       </li>
       <li id="fn39">
          <p>Nations (n 7) ch iv regulation 10 lit. h iv 1.<a
             href="#fnref39" class="footnote-back" role="doc-backlink">↩︎</a></p>
       </li>
       <li id="fn40">
          <p>The GMDSS takes a two-step approach. One device is
             responsible for indicating a distress signal to everyone in the reach by
             sending a radio signal, (EPIRB) The other device is made to send the
             location of the person (SART).<a href="#fnref40" class="footnote-back"
                role="doc-backlink">↩︎</a>
          </p>
       </li>
       <li id="fn41">
          <p>Nations (n 7) ch iv regulation 11 lit. a viii.<a
             href="#fnref41" class="footnote-back" role="doc-backlink">↩︎</a></p>
       </li>
       <li id="fn42">
          <p>Which are manually deployed device alternative to
             SART.<a href="#fnref42" class="footnote-back"
                role="doc-backlink">↩︎</a>
          </p>
       </li>
       <li id="fn43">
          <p>Which is telex system for automated print of
             information received.<a href="#fnref43" class="footnote-back"
                role="doc-backlink">↩︎</a>
          </p>
       </li>
       <li id="fn44">
          <p>In the affirmative Bank, (n 15) p. 24; contra Stefan
             Talmon, <span>“Private Seenotrettung Und Das Völkerrecht”</span>
             <span>[</span>2019<span>]</span> JuristenZeitung 802 p. 803; Martin
             Ratcovich, <em>International Law and the Rescue of Refugees at Sea:
             Doctoral Thesis in Public International Law at Stockholm University</em>
             (Stockholm University 2019) p. 88-89.<a href="#fnref44"
                class="footnote-back" role="doc-backlink">↩︎</a>
          </p>
       </li>
       <li id="fn45">
          <p>For a deeper examination of the subjectivity of
             individuals under international law see Gadow-Stephani, (n 15) pp. 26;
             Knut Ipsen and others (eds), <em>Völkerrecht: Ein Studienbuch</em> (7,
             völlig neu bearbeitete Auflage, CH Beck 2018) pp. 370.<a href="#fnref45"
                class="footnote-back" role="doc-backlink">↩︎</a>
          </p>
       </li>
       <li id="fn46">
          <p>This follows because outside of the territorial Sea and
             the EEZ the coastal State has no exclusive sovereign rights by Nations,
             (n 37). Art. 87 I, 89.<a href="#fnref46" class="footnote-back"
                role="doc-backlink">↩︎</a>
          </p>
       </li>
       <li id="fn47">
          <p>See chapter 3.4 page 10.<a href="#fnref47"
             class="footnote-back" role="doc-backlink">↩︎</a></p>
       </li>
       <li id="fn48">
          <p><span>“History of the Royal National Lifeboat
             Institution”</span>, &lt;<a
                href="https://rnli.org/about-us/our-history/timeline"
                class="uri">https://rnli.org/about-us/our-history/timeline</a>&gt;.<a
                href="#fnref48" class="footnote-back" role="doc-backlink">↩︎</a>
          </p>
       </li>
       <li id="fn49">
          <p><span>“A Ship for Vietnam”</span> &lt;<a
             href="https://www1.wdr.de/stichtag8090.html"
             class="uri">https://www1.wdr.de/stichtag8090.html</a>&gt;.<a
             href="#fnref49" class="footnote-back" role="doc-backlink">↩︎</a></p>
       </li>
       <li id="fn50">
          <p>Unless indicated otherwise.<a href="#fnref50"
             class="footnote-back" role="doc-backlink">↩︎</a></p>
       </li>
       <li id="fn51">
          <p>Nations (n 26).<a href="#fnref51" class="footnote-back"
             role="doc-backlink">↩︎</a></p>
       </li>
       <li id="fn52">
          <p>Nations (n 27).<a href="#fnref52" class="footnote-back"
             role="doc-backlink">↩︎</a></p>
       </li>
       <li id="fn53">
          <p>See chapter 3.2. page 7.<a href="#fnref53"
             class="footnote-back" role="doc-backlink">↩︎</a></p>
       </li>
       <li id="fn54">
          <p>Chapter two was also entirely renewed in 1998 to
             clarify the obligations of the signing States except for paragraphs
             2.1.4, 2.1.5, 2.1.7, 2.1.10.<a href="#fnref54" class="footnote-back"
                role="doc-backlink">↩︎</a>
          </p>
       </li>
       <li id="fn55">
          <p>Nations (n 6) para 1.1.3.<a href="#fnref55"
             class="footnote-back" role="doc-backlink">↩︎</a></p>
       </li>
       <li id="fn56">
          <p>Nations, (n 6) chapter 2 paragraphs 2.1.3, 2.2.1 et
             al.<a href="#fnref56" class="footnote-back"
                role="doc-backlink">↩︎</a>
          </p>
       </li>
       <li id="fn57">
          <p>Nations, ibid chapter 4 paragraphs 4.6, 4.7 et al.<a
             href="#fnref57" class="footnote-back" role="doc-backlink">↩︎</a></p>
       </li>
       <li id="fn58">
          <p>Nations, ibid chapter 3 and 4, paragraphs 3.1.7, 4.5 et
             al.<a href="#fnref58" class="footnote-back"
                role="doc-backlink">↩︎</a>
          </p>
       </li>
       <li id="fn59">
          <p>Nations, ibid chapter 2 paragraphs 2.3, 2.4 et al.<a
             href="#fnref59" class="footnote-back" role="doc-backlink">↩︎</a></p>
       </li>
       <li id="fn60">
          <p>Nations, ibid chapter 3 paragraphs 3.1.5, 3.1.9 et
             al.<a href="#fnref60" class="footnote-back"
                role="doc-backlink">↩︎</a>
          </p>
       </li>
       <li id="fn61">
          <p>Nations, ibid chapter 2 paragraphs 2.1.2 no. 1-6.<a
             href="#fnref61" class="footnote-back" role="doc-backlink">↩︎</a></p>
       </li>
       <li id="fn62">
          <p>Ibid 2 paragraph 2.1.3.<a href="#fnref62"
             class="footnote-back" role="doc-backlink">↩︎</a></p>
       </li>
       <li id="fn63">
          <p>De natura rerum the neighbouring States. To prevent
             impact of this provision to ongoing disputes regarding the delimitation
             of the Seas, chapter 2 paragraph 2.1.7 SAR 1979 ensures these regions
             have no effect on the boundaries of States.<a href="#fnref63"
                class="footnote-back" role="doc-backlink">↩︎</a>
          </p>
       </li>
       <li id="fn64">
          <p>For a map of the SRRs see United States Coast Guard,
             <span>“World Index of SAR Regions”</span> &lt;<a
                href="https://www.dco.uscg.mil/Portals/9/CG-5R/nsarc/IMO%20Maritime%20SAR%20Regions.pdf">https://www.dco.uscg.mil/Portals/9/CG-5R/nsarc/IMO
             Maritime SAR Regions.pdf</a>&gt;.<a href="#fnref64"
                class="footnote-back" role="doc-backlink">↩︎</a>
          </p>
       </li>
       <li id="fn65">
          <p>Nations (n 6) ch 2 paragraph 2.2.1.<a href="#fnref65"
             class="footnote-back" role="doc-backlink">↩︎</a></p>
       </li>
       <li id="fn66">
          <p>Nations, (n 6) chapter 2 paragraph 2.3.1.<a
             href="#fnref66" class="footnote-back" role="doc-backlink">↩︎</a></p>
       </li>
       <li id="fn67">
          <p>Ibid chapter paragraph 2.3.<a href="#fnref67"
             class="footnote-back" role="doc-backlink">↩︎</a></p>
       </li>
       <li id="fn68">
          <p>Chapter 3.2. page 8.<a href="#fnref68"
             class="footnote-back" role="doc-backlink">↩︎</a></p>
       </li>
       <li id="fn69">
          <p>Nations (n 6) ch 3 paragraph 3.1.8.<a href="#fnref69"
             class="footnote-back" role="doc-backlink">↩︎</a></p>
       </li>
       <li id="fn70">
          <p>Ibid paragraph 3.1.9.<a href="#fnref70"
             class="footnote-back" role="doc-backlink">↩︎</a></p>
       </li>
       <li id="fn71">
          <p>This is going to be addressed in chapter 4.1 page 15.<a
             href="#fnref71" class="footnote-back" role="doc-backlink">↩︎</a></p>
       </li>
       <li id="fn72">
          <p>Jasper van Berckel Smit, <span>“Taking Onboard the
             Issue of Disembarkation”</span> <span>[</span>2020<span>]</span>
             European Journal Of Migration And Law 492, 506; Martin Ratcovich,
             <span>“The Concept of ’Place of Safety’: Yet Another Self-Contained
             Maritime Rule of a Sustainable Solution to the Ever Controversial
             Question of Where to Disembark Migrants Rescued at Sea?”</span> 81
             125–126.<a href="#fnref72" class="footnote-back"
                role="doc-backlink">↩︎</a>
          </p>
       </li>
       <li id="fn73">
          <p>International Maritime Organisation (ed),
             <span>“International Aeronautical and Maritime Search and Rescue Manual:
             Volume II. Mission Co-Ordination”</span>, International Maritime
             Organisation (ed), <span>“International Aeronautical and Maritime Search
             and Rescue Manual: Volume III. Mobile Facilities”</span>; Note, that
             Chapter four is not the IAMSAR but sets the groundwork for it.<a
                href="#fnref73" class="footnote-back" role="doc-backlink">↩︎</a>
          </p>
       </li>
       <li id="fn74">
          <p>Organisation, <span>“International Aeronautical and
             Maritime Search and Rescue Manual”</span> (n 73) chapter 1.6, 3.2.<a
                href="#fnref74" class="footnote-back" role="doc-backlink">↩︎</a>
          </p>
       </li>
       <li id="fn75">
          <p>Ibid 1.6.2, 3.4.<a href="#fnref75"
             class="footnote-back" role="doc-backlink">↩︎</a></p>
       </li>
       <li id="fn76">
          <p>Ibid 3.4.2.<a href="#fnref76" class="footnote-back"
             role="doc-backlink">↩︎</a></p>
       </li>
       <li id="fn77">
          <p>Ibid 3.6.<a href="#fnref77" class="footnote-back"
             role="doc-backlink">↩︎</a></p>
       </li>
       <li id="fn78">
          <p>Ibid 3.5.2 lit. (b)-(f).<a href="#fnref78"
             class="footnote-back" role="doc-backlink">↩︎</a></p>
       </li>
       <li id="fn79">
          <p>Ibid lit. (g.).<a href="#fnref79" class="footnote-back"
             role="doc-backlink">↩︎</a></p>
       </li>
       <li id="fn80">
          <p>See the technical requirements of SOLAS 1979 in chapter
             3.2. page 8.<a href="#fnref80" class="footnote-back"
                role="doc-backlink">↩︎</a>
          </p>
       </li>
       <li id="fn81">
          <p>Organisation, <span>“International Aeronautical and
             Maritime Search and Rescue Manual”</span> (n 73) ch 4.<a href="#fnref81"
                class="footnote-back" role="doc-backlink">↩︎</a>
          </p>
       </li>
       <li id="fn82">
          <p>Ibid 1.6.11, 5, 6.<a href="#fnref82"
             class="footnote-back" role="doc-backlink">↩︎</a></p>
       </li>
       <li id="fn83">
          <p>As provided in Organisation, <span>“International
             Aeronautical and Maritime Search and Rescue Manual”</span> (n 73)
             chapter 5.<a href="#fnref83" class="footnote-back"
                role="doc-backlink">↩︎</a>
          </p>
       </li>
       <li id="fn84">
          <p>Ibid 6.1, 6.2.<a href="#fnref84" class="footnote-back"
             role="doc-backlink">↩︎</a></p>
       </li>
       <li id="fn85">
          <p>Ibid 6.4, 6.6.<a href="#fnref85" class="footnote-back"
             role="doc-backlink">↩︎</a></p>
       </li>
       <li id="fn86">
          <p>Ibid 1.6.12.<a href="#fnref86" class="footnote-back"
             role="doc-backlink">↩︎</a></p>
       </li>
       <li id="fn87">
          <p>Ibid 8.<a href="#fnref87" class="footnote-back"
             role="doc-backlink">↩︎</a></p>
       </li>
       <li id="fn88">
          <p>Nations (n 6) ch 4.4.<a href="#fnref88"
             class="footnote-back" role="doc-backlink">↩︎</a></p>
       </li>
       <li id="fn89">
          <p>Nations, (n 6) chapter 4.4, Organisation,
             <span>“International Aeronautical and Maritime Search and Rescue
             Manual”</span> (n 73) chapter 3.3, 3.5.1.<a href="#fnref89"
                class="footnote-back" role="doc-backlink">↩︎</a>
          </p>
       </li>
       <li id="fn90">
          <p>Nations (n 6) chs 4.4.1, 4.4.2.<a href="#fnref90"
             class="footnote-back" role="doc-backlink">↩︎</a></p>
       </li>
       <li id="fn91">
          <p>Ibid 4.4.2, 4.4.3.<a href="#fnref91"
             class="footnote-back" role="doc-backlink">↩︎</a></p>
       </li>
       <li id="fn92">
          <p>Mihir Kanade, <span>“Don´t Ask Me Who i Am: The Deaf
             Ear and the Blind Eye of Maritime Law on Disembarkation of Refugees and
             Asylum-Seekers Rescued at Sea”</span> ISIL Year Book of International
             Humanitarian and Refugee Law 1, 5; Jasmine Coppens and Eduard Somers,
             <span>“Towards New Rules on Disembarkation of Persons Rescued at
             Sea?”</span> <span>[</span>2010<span>]</span> The International Journal
             of Marine and Coastal Law 377, 381.<a href="#fnref92"
                class="footnote-back" role="doc-backlink">↩︎</a>
          </p>
       </li>
       <li id="fn93">
          <p>Franceso Munari, <span>“Search and Rescue at Sea: Do
             New Challenges Require New Rules? Rethinking Risk, Human Impacts and
             Regulation”</span> in Claudio Aporta; Ronald Pelot Aldo Chircop Floris
             Goerland (ed), <em>Governance of artic shipping</em> (Springer Polar
             Sciences 2020) 70.<a href="#fnref93" class="footnote-back"
                role="doc-backlink">↩︎</a>
          </p>
       </li>
       <li id="fn94">
          <p>Ibid 69.<a href="#fnref94" class="footnote-back"
             role="doc-backlink">↩︎</a></p>
       </li>
       <li id="fn95">
          <p>Koukounakis (n 14) 162; Satya NNandan/ Shabtai
             Rosenne/Neal R Grandy, <span>“Volume III: 1982 ; a Commentary”</span> in
             Shabtai Rosenne and Myron H Nordquist (eds), <em>United nations
             convention on the law of the sea</em> (Nijhoff 1989) fn. 98.11 (b).<a
                href="#fnref95" class="footnote-back" role="doc-backlink">↩︎</a>
          </p>
       </li>
       <li id="fn96">
          <p><span>“Convention for the Unification of Certain Rules
             with Respect to Assistance and Salvage at Sea”</span> Art. 11: “Every
             master is bound, (…) to render assistance to everybody, even though an
             enemy, found at sea in danger of being lost.”<a href="#fnref96"
                class="footnote-back" role="doc-backlink">↩︎</a>
          </p>
       </li>
       <li id="fn97">
          <p>David Testa, <span>“Safeguarding Human Life and
             Ensuring Respect for Fundamental Human Rights: A Consequential Approach
             to the Disembarkation of Persons Rescued at Sea”</span>
             <span>[</span>2014<span>]</span> Ocean Yearbook 555, 556; Berckel Smit
             (n 72) 393.<a href="#fnref97" class="footnote-back"
                role="doc-backlink">↩︎</a>
          </p>
       </li>
       <li id="fn98">
          <p>Coppens and Somers (n 92) 381, 382; United Nations,
             <span>“Report of the Secretary-General on the Meeting on Refugees and
             Displaced Persons in South East Asia and Subsequent Developments UN Doc.
             A/34/627 and Corr. 1”</span> &lt;<a
                href="http://www.unhcr.org/cgi-bin/texis/vtx/refworld/rwmain?page=search&amp;amp;docid=3ae68f420&amp;amp;skip=0&amp;amp;query=A/34/627#hit1"
                class="uri">http://www.unhcr.org/cgi-bin/texis/vtx/refworld/rwmain?page=search&amp;amp;docid=3ae68f420&amp;amp;skip=0&amp;amp;query=A/34/627#hit1</a>&gt;;
             United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees, <span>“Conclusion No. 23
             (XXII) Problems Related to the Rescue of Asylum- Seekers in Distress at
             Sea”</span> &lt;<a href="http://www.unhcr.org/3ae68c4344.html"
                class="uri">http://www.unhcr.org/3ae68c4344.html</a>&gt;.<a
                href="#fnref98" class="footnote-back" role="doc-backlink">↩︎</a>
          </p>
       </li>
       <li id="fn99">
          <p>Federal Court of Australia, <span>“Minister for
             Immigration and Multicultural Affairs a.o. .v. Eric Vadarlis.
             V1007/01”</span>.<a href="#fnref99" class="footnote-back"
                role="doc-backlink">↩︎</a>
          </p>
       </li>
       <li id="fn100">
          <p>Berckel Smit (n 72) 499; Kanade (n 92) 15.<a
             href="#fnref100" class="footnote-back"
             role="doc-backlink">↩︎</a></p>
       </li>
       <li id="fn101">
          <p>Kanade (n 92) 26.<a href="#fnref101"
             class="footnote-back" role="doc-backlink">↩︎</a></p>
       </li>
       <li id="fn102">
          <p>See for the requirements for accepted customary
             international law Markus Krajewski, <span>“Völkerrecht”</span> &lt;<a
                href="http://dx.doi.org/10.5771/9783845263755"
                class="uri">http://dx.doi.org/10.5771/9783845263755</a>&gt; §4 II.<a
                href="#fnref102" class="footnote-back"
                role="doc-backlink">↩︎</a>
          </p>
       </li>
       <li id="fn103">
          <p>Maritime Safety Committee, <span>“Guidelines on the
             Treatment of Persons Rescued at Sea.”</span><a href="#fnref103"
                class="footnote-back" role="doc-backlink">↩︎</a>
          </p>
       </li>
       <li id="fn104">
          <p>Ibid 6.12.<a href="#fnref104" class="footnote-back"
             role="doc-backlink">↩︎</a></p>
       </li>
       <li id="fn105">
          <p>Ibid 6.15.<a href="#fnref105" class="footnote-back"
             role="doc-backlink">↩︎</a></p>
       </li>
       <li id="fn106">
          <p>Seline Trevisanut, <span>“Is There a Right to Be
             Rescued at Sea? A Constructive View”</span>
             <span>[</span>2014<span>]</span> Questions of International Law 3, 6.<a
                href="#fnref106" class="footnote-back"
                role="doc-backlink">↩︎</a>
          </p>
       </li>
       <li id="fn107">
          <p>Committee (n 103) para 6.13 “temporary.”<a
             href="#fnref107" class="footnote-back"
             role="doc-backlink">↩︎</a></p>
       </li>
       <li id="fn108">
          <p>Testa, (n 97) p. 592 f; Patricia Mallia and David
             Joseph Attard, <span>“Access to Ports for Ships in Distress: What of
             Disembarkation?”</span> <span>[</span>2012<span>]</span> Benedict’s
             Maritime Bulletin p. 85 p. 85; See for an insight of the discussion on
             how to amend the convention: Italy and Spain proposing to change the
             convention text to “delivered to a place of safety under the control” of
             the responsible State whereas Malta proposes to change the convention to
             the effect that “disembarkation should occur in (…) that port closest to
             the location of the rescue” Testa, (n 97) p. 549 ff; International
             Maritime Organization, <span>“Measures to Protect the Safety of Persons
             Rescued at Sea: FSI 17/15/1. Compulsory Guidelines for the Treatment of
             Persons Rescued at Sea Submitted by Spain and Italy”</span> para. 4;
             International Maritime Organization, <span>“Measures to Protect the
             Safety of Persons Rescued at Sea: Comments on Document. FSI
             17/15/2”</span> para. 6. These approaches are obviously geographically
             motivated.<a href="#fnref108" class="footnote-back"
                role="doc-backlink">↩︎</a>
          </p>
       </li>
       <li id="fn109">
          <p>Nations, (n 6) chapter 1 paragraph 1.3.2.<a
             href="#fnref109" class="footnote-back"
             role="doc-backlink">↩︎</a></p>
       </li>
       <li id="fn110">
          <p>@ proelß2021 p. 11; Talmon, (n 44) p. 808.<a
             href="#fnref110" class="footnote-back"
             role="doc-backlink">↩︎</a></p>
       </li>
       <li id="fn111">
          <p>Although this is only important if it comes to private
             vessels saving the people.<a href="#fnref111" class="footnote-back"
                role="doc-backlink">↩︎</a>
          </p>
       </li>
       <li id="fn112">
          <p>Nations (n 6) 3.1.9.<a href="#fnref112"
             class="footnote-back" role="doc-backlink">↩︎</a></p>
       </li>
       <li id="fn113">
          <p>Bank, (n 15) p. 827; Testa, (n 97) p. 564; Kanade, (n
             92) p. 29.<a href="#fnref113" class="footnote-back"
                role="doc-backlink">↩︎</a>
          </p>
       </li>
       <li id="fn114">
          <p>Thomas Gammeltoft-Hansen, <span>“Access to Asylum:
             International Refugee Law and the Globalisation of Migration
             Control”</span> 143 &lt;<a
                href="http://dx.doi.org/10.1017/CBO9780511763403"
                class="uri">http://dx.doi.org/10.1017/CBO9780511763403</a>&gt;.<a
                href="#fnref114" class="footnote-back"
                role="doc-backlink">↩︎</a>
          </p>
       </li>
       <li id="fn115">
          <p>Trevisanut (n 106) 7; the same in Seline Trevisanut,
             <span>“Search and Rescue Operations at Sea”</span>
             <span>[</span>2017<span>]</span> The @practice of shared responsibility
             in international law 426, 426–450.<a href="#fnref115"
                class="footnote-back" role="doc-backlink">↩︎</a>
          </p>
       </li>
       <li id="fn116">
          <p>Berckel Smit, (n 72) p. 507; See therefore Nations, (n
             27) preambular para. “Realizing further”.<a href="#fnref116"
                class="footnote-back" role="doc-backlink">↩︎</a>
          </p>
       </li>
       <li id="fn117">
          <p>Berckel Smit, (n 72) p. 507; International Maritime
             Organization, <span>“Principles Relating to Administrative Procedures
             for Disembarking Persons Rescued at Sea: FAL.3/Circ.194”</span>
             principle 3.<a href="#fnref117" class="footnote-back"
                role="doc-backlink">↩︎</a>
          </p>
       </li>
       <li id="fn118">
          <p>Douglas Guilfoyle, <span>“<span>Article 86
             LOSC</span>”</span> in Alexander Proelß (ed), <em>United nations
             convention on the law of the sea: A commentary</em> (Nomos) 729;
             Efthymios Papastavridis, <span>“The European Convention of Human Rights
             and Migration at Sea: Reading the <span>‘Jurisdictional
             Threshold’</span>of the Convention Under the Law of the Sea
             Paradigm”</span> (2020) 21 German Law Journal 417, 299; Koukounakis (n
             14) 170; Berckel Smit (n 72) 507.<a href="#fnref118"
                class="footnote-back" role="doc-backlink">↩︎</a>
          </p>
       </li>
       <li id="fn119">
          <p>@ proelß2021 p. 11; agreeing to this extend
             Trevisanut, (n 106) p. 7; Testa, (n 97) p. 572; Barnes, (n 16) p. 63;
             Berckel Smit, (n 72) p. 507; Koukounakis, (n 14) pp. 170-171.<a
                href="#fnref119" class="footnote-back"
                role="doc-backlink">↩︎</a>
          </p>
       </li>
       <li id="fn120">
          <p>Nations, (n 6) chapter 3 paragraph 3.1.9.<a
             href="#fnref120" class="footnote-back"
             role="doc-backlink">↩︎</a></p>
       </li>
       <li id="fn121">
          <p>@ proelß2021 p. 11; Talmon, (n 44) p. 808.<a
             href="#fnref121" class="footnote-back"
             role="doc-backlink">↩︎</a></p>
       </li>
       <li id="fn122">
          <p>Testa (n 97) 565.<a href="#fnref122"
             class="footnote-back" role="doc-backlink">↩︎</a></p>
       </li>
       <li id="fn123">
          <p>Some authors reserve this right only to asylum
             Seekers, e.g. Testa, (n 97) p. 570; as others extend the applicability
             to refugees and asylum Seekers Goodwin-Gill, (n 16) p. 232.<a
                href="#fnref123" class="footnote-back"
                role="doc-backlink">↩︎</a>
          </p>
       </li>
       <li id="fn124">
          <p>United Nations, <span>“Convention and Protocoll
             Relating to the Status of Refugees”</span> Art. 33.<a href="#fnref124"
                class="footnote-back" role="doc-backlink">↩︎</a>
          </p>
       </li>
       <li id="fn125">
          <p>One mediate State obligation under SAR 1979 is the
             prohibition of push back operations in the case that a refugee boat is
             in distress. In how far the maritime push-back operation scheme
             especially in the Mediterranean falls under the 2020 Judgement of the
             European Court of Human Rights (ECHR) is not going to be addressed here
             as questions of the law of the sea were not of regard as well as the
             Australian push-back scheme which is left completely untouched by this.
             European Court of Human Rights, <span>“ND and NT .v. Spain. 8675/15 /
             8697/15”</span>.<a href="#fnref125" class="footnote-back"
                role="doc-backlink">↩︎</a>
          </p>
       </li>
       <li id="fn126">
          <p>Committee (n 103) ch 6.12.<a href="#fnref126"
             class="footnote-back" role="doc-backlink">↩︎</a></p>
       </li>
       <li id="fn127">
          <p>Ibid 6 paragraph 6.19.<a href="#fnref127"
             class="footnote-back" role="doc-backlink">↩︎</a></p>
       </li>
       <li id="fn128">
          <p>Ibid paragraph 6.19.<a href="#fnref128"
             class="footnote-back" role="doc-backlink">↩︎</a></p>
       </li>
       <li id="fn129">
          <p>Kanade (n 92) 22.<a href="#fnref129"
             class="footnote-back" role="doc-backlink">↩︎</a></p>
       </li>
       <li id="fn130">
          <p>contra Koukounakis, (n 14) p. 179.<a href="#fnref130"
             class="footnote-back" role="doc-backlink">↩︎</a></p>
       </li>
       <li id="fn131">
          <p>United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees,
             <span>“Rescue at Sea - Specific Aspects Relating to the Protection of
             Asylum-Seekers and Refugees”</span> &lt;<a
                href="https://www.unhcr.org/protection/globalconsult/3e5f345a0/rescue-at-sea-specific-aspects-relating-protection-asylum-seekers-refugees.html"
                class="uri">https://www.unhcr.org/protection/globalconsult/3e5f345a0/rescue-at-sea-specific-aspects-relating-protection-asylum-seekers-refugees.html</a>&gt;.
             Paragraph 7.<a href="#fnref131" class="footnote-back"
                role="doc-backlink">↩︎</a>
          </p>
       </li>
       <li id="fn132">
          <p>@ proelß2021 p. 21; Goodwin-Gill, (n 16) p. 215; Yao
             Li, <span>“Exclusion from Protection as a Refugee: An Approach to a
             Harmonizing Interpretation in International Law”</span> in David James
             Cantor (ed), <em>International refugee law series</em> (BRILL 2017)
             &lt;<a
                href="https://ebookcentral.proquest.com/lib/gbv/detail.action?docID=5045653"
                class="uri">https://ebookcentral.proquest.com/lib/gbv/detail.action?docID=5045653</a>&gt;
             pp. 35-47; Kanade, (n 92) p. 32; James C Hathaway, <em>The Rights of
             Refugees Under International Law</em> (Cambridge University Press 2005)
             p. 301.; not considering this comprise Koukounakis, (n 14) p. 177 who
             says that the examination can always be done on a Ship.<a
                href="#fnref132" class="footnote-back"
                role="doc-backlink">↩︎</a>
          </p>
       </li>
       <li id="fn133">
          <p>See European Court of Human Rights, <span>“Hirsi Jamaa
             a.o. V. Italy. 27765/09”</span> 72 for further information.<a
                href="#fnref133" class="footnote-back"
                role="doc-backlink">↩︎</a>
          </p>
       </li>
       <li id="fn134">
          <p>Ibid.<a href="#fnref134" class="footnote-back"
             role="doc-backlink">↩︎</a></p>
       </li>
       <li id="fn135">
          <p>Proelß (n 19) 22; United Nations High Commissioner for
             Refugees, <span>“Interception of Asylum-Seekers and Refugees: The
             International Framework and Recommendations for a Comprehensive
             Approach: UNHCR, EC/50/SC/CRP.17”</span> no 23; Mariagiulia Giuffré,
             <span>“Access to Asylum at Sea? Integrating Maritime Security with Human
             Rights”</span> in Violeta Moreno-Lax and Efthymios Papastavridis (eds),
             <em>"Boat refugees" and migrants at sea : A comprehensive approach</em>
             (BRILL, NIJHOFF 2016) 252–255 &lt;<a
                href="http://gbv.eblib.com/patron/FullRecord.aspx?p=4750779"
                class="uri">http://gbv.eblib.com/patron/FullRecord.aspx?p=4750779</a>&gt;.<a
                href="#fnref135" class="footnote-back"
                role="doc-backlink">↩︎</a>
          </p>
       </li>
       <li id="fn136">
          <p>International Maritime Organization, <span>“List of
             Amendments Expectet to Enter into Force”</span> &lt;<a
                href="https://www.imo.org/en/About/Conventions/Pages/Action-Dates.aspx"
                class="uri">https://www.imo.org/en/About/Conventions/Pages/Action-Dates.aspx</a>&gt;
             last access 25.01.2021.<a href="#fnref136" class="footnote-back"
                role="doc-backlink">↩︎</a>
          </p>
       </li>
       <li id="fn137">
          <p>This has been brought up by imminent scholars from
             Canada and Sweden. See Megan Drewniak, <span>“Expansion of Business
             Activities in the Arctic: The Issue of Search and Rescur
             Services”</span> 427 pp. 440; Amy E Moen, <span>“For Those in Peril on
             the Sea: Search and Rescue Under the Law of the Sea Convention”</span>
             377 p. 409; Munari, (n 93) p. 76 who brings up the idea of a
             compensation.<a href="#fnref137" class="footnote-back"
                role="doc-backlink">↩︎</a>
          </p>
       </li>
       <li id="fn138">
          <p>Chapter 4.2.1 pages 16-17.<a href="#fnref138"
             class="footnote-back" role="doc-backlink">↩︎</a></p>
       </li>
       <li id="fn139">
          <p>European Comission, <span>“Proposal for a Regulation
             of the European Parliament and of the Council.”</span><a
                href="#fnref139" class="footnote-back"
                role="doc-backlink">↩︎</a>
          </p>
       </li>
    </ol>
 </section>